<p><strong>American International Group</strong> , the bailed-out insurer streamlining itself amid pressure from activists, is now better capitalized and has lower risk than any previous period in its history, the CEO told investors. Peter Hancock's assessment follows what he described as a pivotal year for the company: AIG introduced a new strategic plan that included streamlining operations through asset sales, expense reductions and rebalancing its mix of operations while returning billions in capital to investors. "There's so much change that we have imposed on you as investors and other stakeholders that they need to really study the numbers to get completely confident that we have taken the proper steps to mitigate risk," Hancock said at the <strong>Bank of America</strong> Merrill Lynch insurance conference on Thursday. In the wake of his remarks, AIG rallied 2.3% to $62.27, recouping some of its 9% plunge on Wednesday, when the firm reported a fourth-quarter net loss of $2.96 a share. The negative number was mostly due to a $5.6 billion increase in reserves for future insurance claims, a move that was part of Hancock's push to clean "up a lot of the risk that has hung over the company." Earlier this year, the New York-based insurer agreed to pay $9.8 billion for reinsurance coverage from Warren Buffett's <strong>Berkshire Hathaway</strong> . AIG has also curbed a "heavy overdependence" on U.S. casualty insurance while reducing premiums written in unprofitable areas, Hancock said, adding that the firm is "really narrowing its focus on where we can win." The "biggest change is dramatically shrinking the amount of this business we are writing," he said. Reducing new policies in AIG's worst-performing property and casualty business was, in fact, what prompted Keefe, <strong>Bruyette Woods</strong> analyst Meyer Shields to raise his rating on the stock in December 2015. "AIG's withdrawal from products that it can't underwrite profitably should legitimately expand its margins in 2017," Shields wrote in a note to clients Thursday. Still, the company's commercial insurance lines saw a pre-tax operating loss of $5 billion in the three months through December, increasing from a loss of $2.4 billion a year earlier. Despite increasingly larger verdicts on personal injury claims and a rise in frequency and severity of trucking accidents, Hancock said, AIG is still on track to return $25 billion in capital to shareholders by the end of this year. The firm disbursed a total of $13.1 billion to shareholders last year, and the board said this week it had authorized repurchasing an additional $3.5 billion of the company's stock. AIG also surpassed its goal of a 6% reduction in operating expenses in 2016, paring costs by 10% or $1.1 billion. "Getting expense momentum going in the right direction has given us the courage to walk away from underpriced business and to focus our resources on investing in future technology improvements," Hancock said. AIG's strategic plan was outlined in early 2016 amid pressure from activist investors Carl Icahn and John Paulson. Icahn has previously urged the company, which received a $182 billion government bailout during the financial crisis, to break itself apart to escape stricter regulatory limits on capital spending. Hancock, however, said that removing the non-bank systematically important financial institution (SIFI) designation that subjected the company to more oversight is not on his list of priorities. "It's about No. 10 on my list of things that keeps me awake at night," he said. In fact, Hancock said, he sees financial regulations as a positive for AIG. "Our clients like the fact that we're regulated," he added. "It gives them more assurance on our claims-paying ability. It creates barriers to entry for disruptors. It's an important source of competitive advantage." There's no need for additional restructuring efforts, Hancock added. The company's outlook for 2017 includes continuing to improve efficiency and divesting assets to release up to $9 billion in capital by the end of the year; the company has already reached more than 78% of that goal. "Although we completely support several key aspects of AIG's strategy, we suspect that it was developed hastily in response to very public pressure from prominent shareholders," Shields, the Keefe Bruyette analyst, wrote. Poor execution could "reinforce calls for more dramatic management and corporate changes," he noted. EXCLUSIVE OFFER: See inside Jim Cramer&rsquo;s multi-million dollar charitable trust portfolio to see the stocks he thinks could be potentially HUGE winners. Click here to see his holdings for FREE. Mike D: For anyone who doesn't watch Fox News with regularity. Shep Smith has always been anti-Trump. He takes President Trump's attacks on the media very personally. Myself, I find it a little over the top and he's definitely incapable of being anywhere near impartial when he reports on the President but that's not unusual these days. 5.3k</p>
