LONDON, UK / ACCESSWIRE / February 16, 2017 / Active Wall St. blog coverage looks at the headline from <strong>Arconic, Inc.</strong> (NYSE: ARNC ) and <strong>Alcoa Corp.</strong> (NYSE: AA ). <strong>Arconic</strong> announced on February 15, 2017, that the Company has sold off majority stake in Alcoa. 23,353,000 shares out of the 36,311,767 shares that it holds in <strong>Alcoa</strong> was sold for $890 million. The sale represents more than 60% of its holdings in Alcoa. Register with us now for your free membership and blog access at: http://www.activewallst.com/register/ Today, AWS is promoting its blog coverage on ARNC and AA. Get all of our free blog coverage and more by clicking on the links below: http://www.activewallst.com/register/ Arconic plans to use the funds from the stake sale for improving its cash position so that it has the flexibility of using the funds to either pay off its debt or buyback its own shares. The timing of the stake sale is at the lowest risk and transaction costs. Apart from this Arconic has certain carry forward tax benefits available in the US which it can offset against any income that is taxable. The Company plans to make the most of the available tax benefits. Arconic also said that it would manage the remaining stake in Alcoa responsibly and take a decision at the right time when the stock has upside potential. Background Aluminium producer <strong>Alcoa Inc.</strong> was split into two separate entities in November 2016. Alcoa Inc. was rechristened as Arconic and the new spin off business was named Alcoa Corp. After the split Arconic would handle the engineering products for aerospace and automotive businesses and Alcoa Corp. would take over the smelting and refining divisions. Arconic retained 19.9% of Alcoa after the spinoff and 80.1% was distributed amongst the shareholders as per the stock split approved by the Company's shareholders. Activist investor Paul Singer and his hedge fundhed Elliott Management is a major stockholder of Arconic.<strong> Elliott Management</strong> owns more than 12% in Arconic as on February 11, 2017. Since the Alcoa Inc.'s split in November, 2016, Elliott Management started a campaign to oust Arconic's Chief Executive Klaus Kleinfeld. The Proxy war In January 2017, <strong>Elliott</strong> Management announced that it would nominate 5 members to the Arconic's Board and seek the ouster of Klaus Kleinfeld. Elliott Management plans to bring in Larry Lawson, the former Chief Executive of<strong> Spirit AeroSystems Holdings Inc.</strong> to replace Klaus Kleinfeld. Elliott Management pointed out that Arconic was lagging behind in terms of margins and the stock was undervalued. Roughly translated, Arconic could do with a round of cost cutting to increase share value. Elliott Management feels that if Arconic implements its suggestions then the stock has a chance to reach the target price of $46, which is nearly 50% more than the current price of the stock. However, Klaus Kleinfeld has the full support of the Board of Arconic including the three independent directors nominated by Elliott Management. On February 06, 2017, the Independent Directors of Arconic Board wrote to Arconic's shareholders reiterating their unanimous support for Klaus Kleinfeld and his ability to lead the Company. Klaus Kleinfeld took on the contest and questioned Elliott Management's understanding of Arconic's business before launching a proxy fight. A statement was issued by the Company on February 07, 2017, replying to Elliott Management's queries. It read: "Arconic's Board and management team are committed to protecting and advancing the long-term interests of all of Arconic's shareholders based on sound analysis. The Company believes that Elliott's shifting numbers, data sources and valuations require thoughtful shareholder scrutiny. The Company intends to provide further information on Elliott's other misleading assertions in the near future." Elliott Management has been accumulating shares of Arconic from the open market. As per the filing with the SEC (Securities Exchange Commission), on February 15, 2017 Elliott Management purchased 289,000 shares of Arconic. Given Elliott Management's modus operandi, it would be interesting to see how the story pans out going ahead. Stock Performance On Wednesday, February 15, 2017, the stock closed the trading session at $29.21, declining 1.05% from its previous closing price of $29.52. A total volume of 5.07 million shares have exchanged hands. <strong>Arconic's</strong> stock price advanced 41.21% in the last month, 53.42% in the past three months, and 27.22% in the previous six months. Moreover, the stock soared 57.97% since the start of the year. At Wednesday's closing price, the stock's net capitalization stands at $12.80 billion. At the closing bell, on Wednesday, February 15, 2017, AA's stock slipped 1.79%, ending the trading session at $37.87. A total volume of 11.49 million shares were traded at the end of the day, which was higher than the 3-month average volume of 4.17 million shares. In the last month and previous three months, shares of the Company have advanced 16.02% and 27.85%, respectively. Moreover, the stock gained 34.86% since the start of the year. The Company's shares currently have a market cap of $6.77 billion. Active Wall Street: Active Wall Street (AWS) produces regular sponsored and non-sponsored reports, articles, stock market blogs, and popular investment newsletters covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and micro-cap stocks. AWS has two distinct and independent departments. One department produces non-sponsored analyst certified content generally in the form of press releases, articles and reports covering equities listed on NYSE and NASDAQ and the other produces sponsored content (in most cases not reviewed by a registered analyst), which typically consists of compensated investment newsletters, articles and reports covering listed stocks and micro-caps. Such sponsored content is outside the scope of procedures detailed below. AWS has not been compensated; directly or indirectly; for producing or publishing this document. PRESS RELEASE PROCEDURES: The non-sponsored content contained herein has been prepared by a writer (the "Author") and is fact checked and reviewed by a third party research service company (the "Reviewer") represented by a credentialed financial analyst, for further information on analyst credentials, please email info@activewallst.com . Rohit Tuli, a CFA charterholder (the "Sponsor"), provides necessary guidance in preparing the document templates. The <strong>Reviewer</strong> has reviewed and revised the content, as necessary, based on publicly available information which is believed to be reliable. Content is researched, written and reviewed on a reasonable-effort basis. The Reviewer has not performed any independent investigations or forensic audits to validate the information herein. The Reviewer has only independently reviewed the information provided by the Author according to the procedures outlined by AWS. AWS is not entitled to veto or interfere in the application of such procedures by the third-party research service company to the articles, documents or reports, as the case may be. Unless otherwise noted, any content outside of this document has no association with the Author or the Reviewer in any way. NO WARRANTY AWS, the Author, and the Reviewer are not responsible for any error which may be occasioned at the time of printing of this document or any error, mistake or shortcoming. No liability is accepted whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential loss arising from the use of this document. AWS, the Author, and the Reviewer expressly disclaim any fiduciary responsibility or liability for any consequences, financial or otherwise arising from any reliance placed on the information in this document. Additionally, <strong>AWS</strong>, the Author, and the Reviewer do not (1) guarantee the accuracy, timeliness, completeness or correct sequencing of the information, or (2) warrant any results from use of the information. The included information is subject to change without notice. NOT AN OFFERING This document is not intended as an offering, recommendation, or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell the securities mentioned or discussed, and is to be used for informational purposes only. Please read all associated disclosures and disclaimers in full before investing. Neither AWS nor any party affiliated with us is a registered investment adviser or broker-dealer with any agency or in any jurisdiction whatsoever. To download our report(s), read our disclosures, or for more information, visit http://www.activewallst.com/disclaimer/ . CONTACT For any questions, inquiries, or comments reach out to us directly. If you're a company we are covering and wish to no longer feature on our coverage list contact us via email and/or phone between 09:30 EDT to 16:00 EDT from Monday to Friday at: Email: info@activewallst.com Phone number: 1-858-257-3144 Office Address: 3rd floor, 207 Regent Street, London, W1B 3HH, United Kingdom CFA and Chartered Financial Analyst are registered trademarks owned by CFA Institute. SOURCE: Active Wall Street Mike D: For anyone who doesn't watch Fox News with regularity. Shep Smith has always been anti-Trump. He takes President Trump's attacks on the media very personally. Myself, I find it a little over the top and he's definitely incapable of being anywhere near impartial when he reports on the President but that's not unusual these days. 5.2k



