The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. HPE CEO Meg Whitman kicks off HPE London Discover 2016 (Image: HPE webcast) <strong>Hewlett Packard Enterprise</strong>, HPE, held their bi-annual Discover conference in London this past week, and I, along with other analysts and global press, was eager to see whats next for the still relatively-new company. Its been less than six months since HPE held Discover Las Vegas so this isnt a one-shot deal where the company must address everything. Its also important to recognize the primary target market for the event is customers and the channel and secondarily the tech press and analysts. Even one more fine point, this event is primarily targeting non-US companies who wouldnt have attended Las Vegas. The General Session keynotes were particularly informative, and here are my takeaways from Day 1 and Day 2 after watching them. Overall, HPE did what it needed to do at Discover London and itll be good when the company churn stops and we get to a stasis point. Day 1 General Session: Day 1s address was dedicated to the talk of digital disruption and transformation. CEO Meg Whitman outlined four points of discussion for the day: She went on to divide industries into three categoriesthose who have already transformed, those in the process of transforming, and those about to be transformed. Of course, none of this talk was new to anyone in the industry who regularly attends these conferences and the word digital transformation is way overused, but it was a good frame of reference for current potential customers who dont attend 40 tech events a year. Whitman recapped some announcements from the last Discover held in Las Vegas this past summer (which I attended, and wrote about here and here ). She also spoke more on HPEs announcement three months ago that they would be spinning off and merging their software business assets with <strong>Micro Focus</strong> in the UK. She bragged on <strong>Micro Focus</strong> a bit, saying that the company has never shut down a product that they acquired and merged with, and that their growing assets will be important moving forward. This was intended to give new<strong> Micro Focus</strong> customers from HPE a better feeling. Mission critical applications One of the biggest differentiators Hewlett Packard Enterprise brings to the table is its participation in mission critical applications, those which cannot go down and must be up, like finance and airlines. Whitman presented a live video from Alain Andreoli, Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Data Center Infrastructure Group, from the show floor. Andreoli spoke of HPEs acquisition of SGI, and reiterated HPEs commitment to the portfolios, capabilities, and expertise that SGI brings to the table. He cited SGIs partnership with Total, in which the two companies managed to triple the compute power of <strong>Totals</strong> Pangea supercomputer (which helps applications synthesize billions of geophysical data points on drilling sites). Andreoli also discussed HPEs prowess at mission critical solutionsrunning HPE Integrity Superdome X, HPE claims to match petabyte scale with sub-millisecond speeds to save millions of dollars that traditionally gets lost in down time. Andreoli wrapped up his segment with a promise: You can trust us when it becomes critical. He didnt talk about the Big Data potential SGI brings to the table and I expect more details over the next few months.

