Yesterday, I wrote a post about how to prepare for Pok mon GO Gen 2 which was supposed to launch by the end of the week. Turns out, that article didnt end up being terribly useful since <strong>Niantic</strong> surprised everyone and launched by the end of the day instead. After an hours worth of server issues, the game seems to be working just fine now, and Gen 2 Pok mon are everywhere. I have been playing as much as humanly possible since then, as well as exploring many of the new additions to the game other than the appearance of new Pok mon. As such, Ive compiled some info that you might find useful as you start your Gen 2 Pok mon GO journey. This is not the only advice Ill give, but for now, this early on, it seems like these items might prove useful. 1. Gen 2 Pok mon Are Spawning Disproportionately So everyone knows that 80+ Pok mon have been added to the game, though an exact list of who showed up is still being formulated. But with ~80 Pok mon joining the current ~150, that should mean that only one out of every three Pok mon spawning in the wild is Gen 2, right? Wrong. <strong>Niantic</strong> realized that people wouldnt be terribly excited for Gen 2 if loads of Gen 1 kept showing up, so they skewed the numbers a bit. Its too early to have scientific data on this, but from the hours Ive played so far, I would say it would not be an exaggeration to say that roughly 70-80% of spawns are Gen 2 right now, which means theyre being weighed very heavily by <strong>Niantic</strong>. Ive gone through entire lures where every single Pok mon that spawned was Gen 2. Its unclear how long this will last (it could be indefinitely, but maybe not), so take advantage while you can. 2. A Lot Has Changed With Capturing Pok mon A few things to note as you go to catch new Gen 2 Pok mon in the wild. Youve probably already seen the new ball/berry selector (which I like quite a bit), but theres more to it than that. There are now Critical Captures in the game, where you will sometimes snag an instant Pok mon catch on a single shake, which is something pulled from the handheld game. What causes Critical Captures has not been exactly determined, but it could be the capture bonuses provided by medals. Also, you now get a 50 XP bonus if your first ball catches a Pok mon. This happens decently often, so its a nice little general XP boost. Finally, you may notice that certain Pok mon have new move animations you havent seen before. Theres one that has the Pok mon zip around diagonally (I saw this on a Magnemite) and another that has it float high off the ground and stay there a while (I saw this on a Hopip). There may be more I havent found, but keep an eye out for these. 3. Catching Evolved Pok mon Gives A Candy Bonus At long, long, long last, <strong>Niantic</strong> implemented a change Ive been suggesting for ages. In order to inspire players to catch level 2 and 3 evolved forms of Pok mon they might have avoided otherwise, theres now a candy boost for each level. Instead of the usual 3, a 2 nd stage evolution will give 5 candy, and a third stage will give 10 candy. This should motivate you to catch those Pok mon you might have avoided because of the resource sink, but now theyll help with candy for XP and evolutions. A very welcome change here. 4. Lapras Got Hit With The Nerf Hammer Well zip back to Gen 1 for a second, because you might be confused that your Lapras suddenly got knocked out of your list of high CP Pok mon. Lapras was hit with an enormous nerf as Gen 2, and seems to be the only Pok mon to have suffered this fate. While many moves have been rebalanced or removed, Lapras seems to be sole CP casualty, and you may see yours lose as much as several hundred CP. Obviously Lapras was strong before, but its unclear why it was nerfed when others remain just as powerful as ever. This will prove disappointing to those who wasted many, many buddy km earning candy for upgrades, as it will just wipe away all of that CP and then some. 5. Gen 2 Babies Now Spawn In The Wild Generation 2 has technically been in Pok mon GO for some time in the form of babies that hatched from eggs as of last December. But with the arrival of Gen 2, apparently theyve expanded into the wild as well. While you will still hatch them as the base level from eggs, all of them are now in the wild, including rare ones like Togepi, so keep an eye out. 6. Here Are The New Cannon Fodder Gen 2's That Turn Into Ditto We are going to have to wait and see who ends up being the new powerhouses of this era, but it should already be clear who some of the most common Pok mon will be. And you can tell because these are the new ones who will sometimes turn into Ditto. I got my first Gen 2 Ditto from a Hoothoot, but there are reports Ditto will also transform from Sentret, and Yanma. In my area, I am positively drowning in Swinub, but that doesnt seem to be on the list. 7. No Berry Stacking You may have noticed that there are two new types of berries, one that slows the movement of Pok mon so theyre easier to hit, another that gives you double candy for a capture. They join the original berry which lets you catch the Pok mon easier. While it will be everyones first idea to stack all three berries the second you see something you really want, <strong>Niantic</strong> isnt making it that easy. You have to pick which berry effect you want active, because only one will work at a time. This is indicated by a little berry icon by the Pok mon, and you can only apply one per breakout cycle. Choose wisely. I have to believe that most of the time the original berry will be preferable, but I can definitely see occasions to use the double candy berry instead.There's A New Eevee Trick That Works If you want two of Gen 2s most famous Pok mon, you dont have to wait. Many thought there would be some new trick to getting Eevee to evolve into Umbreon or Espeon, evolving them during the day or at night or something, but it turns out its an old trick instead. You could name Eevee for a guided evolution in Gen 1, and you can do the same thing here. For Espeon, its Sakura, for Umbreon, its Tamao, which I assume are references to the animated series. Be sure to close your game and reopen it before you evolve to make sure the names have stuck. Its not clear if these two will be Vaporeon-level dominant in this meta, but who wouldnt want them all the same? Update : Players are currently working on a theory that if you walk 10 km with your Eevee as a buddy, then evolve it, it could either be an Espeon or Umbreon instead of the others. It may indeed depend on what time of the day local time you evolve them. Im not considering this confirmed yet, but you can try it after you use up your allotted naming trick. 9. Keep An Eye On Your Pokemon's Gender You will notice that I think all Pok mon have a gender now. Sometimes this results in a few visible changes like a male Gyarados with blue whiskers or a female Raichu with a non-pointed tail. While gender currently means nothing right now , I would definitely start trying to collect both a male and female version of each Pok mon. Why? Because I'm positive that Pok mon GO is going to be introducing breeding in the future, and you'll wish you had two parent Pok mon when that happens, presuming the game will require you to have one of each gender. Not an urgent point of note, but something to keep in mind all the same. 10. There Are Actually Clothing Items For Sale Now I find it rather hilarious that the one aspect of this new update that actually has the potential to earn Niantic money directly is one that theyre barely talking about. You wouldnt know it, but there are now additional clothing customization items that you can buy for your trainer if you go to style on your profile page. So far, its only hats, glasses, tops and pants, but backpacks, gloves and shoes may be coming later. There arent a ton to choose from, and a few like a top hat and a Team Rocket-ish mask are pretty pricey, but I know some dedicated players will want to pick them up, or at least glance over them. I think they could have offered more here, but its an interesting start, and one that might be easy to miss if you didnt know it was added to the game. Thats all Ive got for now, but there will be a lot more coverage of Gen 2 to come. Stay tuned. Follow me on <strong>Twitter</strong> and on <strong>Facebook</strong> . Pick up my sci-fi series, The Earthborn Trilogy , which is now in print, online and on audiobook .


