<strong>CA Technologies</strong> ( CA ) today announced it has been named an  Overall Leader in Adaptive Authentication in the recently released Leadership Compass report from KuppingerCole, a leading analyst firm for identity and access management. CA Advanced Authentication was evaluated for the report, which assessed solutions focused on adaptive authentication  the process of gathering additional attributes about users and their environments and evaluating the attributes in the context of risk-based policies. CA Advanced Authentication is quite flexible: it is available as a standalone product, but also integrates with CAs and other IAM vendors products. It can be deployed on-premises or in the cloud, where it is fully multi-tenant, John Tolbert, lead analyst at KuppingerCole, wrote in the report. With a risk engine that analyzes up to 200 risk factors, and a self-learning user behavior profiling capability to facilitate continuous authentication, CA Advanced Authentication is a clear pick for shortlists when looking for an adaptive authentication solution. In the  Leadership Compass: Adaptive Authentication * report, KuppingerCole calculated leaders in four categories: innovation, market presence, product and overall. Overall leaders were determined based on a combined rating of innovation, market presence and product. In the product segment, CA received the highest scores of strong positive or positive for security, functionality, integration, interoperability and usability. Were seeing significant and growing demand for adaptive and continuous authentication, said Mordecai Rosen, senior vice president and Security business general manager, CA Technologies. "This next generation of analytics-powered authentication is the key component to a future without passwords. <strong>CA Technologies</strong> ( CA ) creates software that fuels transformation for companies and enables them to seize the opportunities of the application economy. Software is at the heart of every business in every industry. From planning, to development, to management and security, CA is working with companies worldwide to change the way we live, transact, and communicate  across mobile, private and public cloud, distributed and mainframe environments.

