Posted February 07, 2017 06:55:39 A teenager has pleaded guilty to stabbing two Australians, killing an American tourist and wounding three others during a knife rampage in central London last year. Zakaria Bulhan appeared at the Old Bailey overnight to face trial for murder and attempted murder. But the prosecution accepted his guilty plea on lesser charges of wounding and manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility because he was suffering from an episode of "acute" paranoid schizophrenia at the time of the attack. The court heard the 19-year-old was moving erratically in Russell Square from about 10:20pm on August 3, 2016 . Witnesses said he had a "crazed" smile on his face as he "skipped" towards his victims before lunging at them in quick succession. Australians Lillie Sellentin and David Imber, who did not initially realise they had been stabbed, were among those left wounded, while American mother-of-two Darlene Horton died after her heart and left lung were punctured by the killer's knife. Bulhan was said to have muttered "Allah", God in Arabic, after being tasered by police. A small pamphlet titled Fortress of the Muslim was found in one of his pockets. But initial fears it may have been a terrorist attack were quickly quelled, as his mental state became clear. Prosecutor Mark Heywood QC said extensive investigations had shown "it is not thought to have any relevance to his motivation". Bulhan told police he had been hearing voices and thought people were trying to kill him before the attack. The Norwegian national, who is of Somali origin and came to Britain as a child, had dropped out of college last April due to his mental state. His father had been trying to calm him in the days before the rampage but Bulhan ran off from a London mosque where they had been praying in the hours before the attack. In a victim impact statement, 23-year-old Ms Sellentin said the stabbing had forced her to undergo several hospital procedures and take HIV tablets. Ms Horton's husband Richard Wager said in his statement "losing my wife and best friend under the circumstances has been as bad as you might imagine". "As bad as I feel for my life, I feel worse for the loss experienced by my two daughters," he wrote. Bulhan sat silently with his arms crossed as the victim impact statements were read out. He could be facing life in prison or a lengthy term in a psychiatric hospital. The judge said he would pass a sentence tomorrow. Topics: law-crime-and-justice , crime , murder-and-manslaughter , community-and-society , england , united-kingdom Contact James Glenday If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC . By political editor Chris Uhlmann The already complicated life of Malcolm Turnbull is about to become harder when Cory Bernardi formally announces he is quitting the Liberal Party, Chris Uhlmann writes. By political reporter Ashlynne McGhee The outspoken conservative senator is expected to formally break with the Liberals and form his own political party. Here's where he stands on key issues. Think you know your sport? Test your knowledge of the sporting week that was with our quiz. Washington's political elite say the world is going to have to get used to a totally disruptive agenda under President Donald Trump. This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced. AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)