Updated February 07, 2017 07:08:12 US President Donald Trump's travel ban was in the spotlight on last night's Q A program, with two Syrian refugees putting a human face on the debate and asking why they deserved to be banned from the country. Brothers Omar and Saad Al Kassab lived in Syria during the Arab Spring, and Omar said he was "shot and tortured by the Syrian regime" before he and his family were forced to flee to Australia. Just three years later in 2016, Saad was celebrated as dux of Catholic Regional College Sydenham , in Melbourne's north-west, after earning an Australian Tertiary Admission Rank (ATAR) of 96.65. "Australia has kindly given us a new life … I am also halfway through my business degree," Omar told the panel, which included Victorian Premier Daniel Andrews, Minister for Environment and Energy Josh Frydenberg, columnist Daisy Cousens, climate activist Xiuhtezcatl Martinez and columnist Helen Andrews. "Why would someone ban people like us from being citizens of this country?" Mr Trump had installed the ban, which temporarily blocked travel from seven majority Muslim countries — Iran, Iraq, Somalia, Syria, Sudan, Libya and Yemen — for 90 days, suspended all refugee admissions for 120 days with "case-by-case" exceptions and suspended entry of Syrian refugees indefinitely. The ban has since been blocked by a federal judge. "The thing about immigration is that it has tended to be sentimentalised over the last little while," said Cousens in response. "That is fair enough. It is an uncomfortable issue… "There are facts to be considered here. It is not a Muslim ban. It is seven countries and affects 12 per cent of Muslims around the world. That is not a racist thing." "The Trump administration wants to put in place a new system of vetting for its refugee population and it will take 90 days to put that together," Ms Andrews said. But Mr Andrews disagreed with Mr Trump's ban, saying "refugees, given an opportunity — a second chance — to build a new life … repay us in spades". "With the greatest of respect what doesn't make sense is you, as the centre of freedom and liberty and democracy in our world, the United States, that you would not judge people by their character, by their conduct, by abilities, by their commitment, you would instead judge them by the God they pray to, how they pray, where they were born, where their parents were born," he said. The President's approach to climate change was also brought into question, with one audience member asking if the young people of Australia should follow the example of Mr Martinez and sue the Government for "inaction on climate, violating our duty of care to the Australian people". "I am currently in a lawsuit with 20 other youth plaintiffs holding our Federal Government accountable for violating our constitutional rights for life, liberty and property for failing to take action on climate change," Mr Martinez said. "It is seen as one of the greatest threats to our rights as American citizens. "I think it is an amazing idea to take the Australian Government to court for failing to protect your future and not taking action on climate change." But Ms Andrews hit back, arguing "suing the Government over climate change is a terrible idea". "It is an undemocratic idea," he said. "Go around and convince people that they need to care more and do more, but faced with the evidence that the American voters are not on board with your climate alarmism, you have decided to circumvent the voters completely … "You and your friends should make the case to the people, rather than inventing a constitutional right to be free of climate change." Mr Frydenberg withheld on making a comment on Mr Trump's opinions on climate change, saying he would not pass judgement on his energy policy without seeing the full details. "I can only judge by the words of his incoming energy secretary who was the governor of Texas for 15 years, and Texas has more wind power than any other state in the United States," he said. "You obviously heard his comments before the election itself. We will wait and see." Topics: government-and-politics , environment , environmental-impact , refugees , immigration , australia First posted February 07, 2017 00:26:12 If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC . By political editor Chris Uhlmann The already complicated life of Malcolm Turnbull is about to become harder when Cory Bernardi formally announces he is quitting the Liberal Party, Chris Uhlmann writes. By political reporter Ashlynne McGhee The outspoken conservative senator is expected to formally break with the Liberals and form his own political party. Here's where he stands on key issues. Think you know your sport? Test your knowledge of the sporting week that was with our quiz. Washington's political elite say the world is going to have to get used to a totally disruptive agenda under President Donald Trump. This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced. AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)