Updated February 07, 2017 21:24:19 The White House has sent journalists a list of terror attacks it believes did not receive adequate attention from Western media — including five incidents in Australia, one of which was determined to be a murder case. It follows President Donald Trump's unsubstantiated claim on Monday that news outlets were intentionally not covering terrorist attacks in the West. "All over Europe it's happening. It's gotten to a point where it's not even being reported," Mr Trump said at Central Command headquarters in Florida. "And in many cases the very, very dishonest press doesn't want to report it. "They have their reasons, and you understand that." Mr Trump declined to provide an example to support his radical theory of a global media conspiracy to whitewash coverage of terrorism. White House spokesman Sean Spicer tried to tone down the President's remarks, saying it was a question of balance: "Like a protest gets blown out of the water, and yet an attack or a foiled attack doesn't necessarily get the same coverage". The White House later sent out a list of 78 terrorist attacks from September 2014 to December 2016 to journalists, claiming it supported Mr Trump's claim that "most have not received the media attention they deserved". Among this list are five incidents in Australia, including the tragic stabbing of Mia Ayliffe-Chung at a Townsville hostel in August 2016, which Queensland Police specifically determined to be a murder case rather than a terrorist attack. Other Australian incidents listed in the White House document are: The list also includes major attacks in San Bernardino, Orlando, Paris, London and Brussels, which separately dominated global headlines for weeks in their aftermath. AP could not verify that each of the incidents had connections to the Islamic State group. The list appeared to be hastily assembled, and included several misspellings of the word "attacker". Egypt has praised the US President's criticism of Western media, a statement from the country's Foreign Ministry said. "The Foreign Ministry hailed the US administration stance in this regard, referring to Egypt's repeated calls upon the international community to adopt a comprehensive, coordinated and non-selective strategy to combat terrorism at all levels; security, political, cultural, media and others," the statement said. Since entering the political fray, Mr Trump's relationship with the news media has been turbulent and often bellicose. Last month, he claimed that news organisations had fabricated his grudge against the US intelligence community, shortly after he had tweeted that US intelligence officers were akin to Nazis. ABC/AP/Reuters Topics: world-politics , government-and-politics , terrorism , unrest-conflict-and-war , information-and-communication , united-states , australia First posted February 07, 2017 16:15:12 A Muslim mum speaks out about her family's challenges adjusting to the Tasmanian public school system. By political editor Chris Uhlmann In 1978, a group of Catholic schoolboys was called to make a moral decision. The night before, a Marist brother had tried to assault one of them. Those boys were better disciples than the princes of their Church, Chris Uhlmann writes. By Harry Hayes for Awaye! After Cody Carter died suddenly on a remote outstation during a storm, his family begged to be rescued. Why did WA Police leave them behind? By Clare Blumer, Rebecca Armitage and Simon Elvery The Australian Catholic Church releases "grim" data revealing 7 per cent of priests, working between 1950 and 2009, have been accused of child sex crimes. This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced. AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)