Posted February 07, 2017 06:25:16 Every year, millions of surgeries are conducted in Australia — from major amputations to minor operations. But figures from the International Association for the Study of Pain (IASP) show a quarter of those surgeries can lead to lasting pain, in some instances dramatically changing the lives of patients. For Margaret McCulloch, a routine knee operation almost 10 years ago derailed her plans for a comfortable retirement. "I guess after the surgery I knew something was wrong, I started getting some numbness in my toes," she said. "Virtually overnight ... I just felt like my legs were on fire. It felt like a current of electricity running up my toes. It was horrific." Ms McCulloch struggled to find the help she needed, turning to multiple doctors before eventually having her chronic pain diagnosed. "He said don't worry Margaret, we'll work on this together and together we'll fix it," she said. "I was so relieved, because no-one had ever said anything like that." In the years since, Ms McCulloch has turned to a combination of medication, hydrotherapy and meditation to manage the pain. "Now I can quite happily set off on a hike for a couple of kilometres, which I never would have thought possible in the early days." Pain awareness advocates across the world are banding together through 2017 under the banner of a Global Year Against Pain After Surgery. Pain Australia chief Lesley Brydon said most people do not understand the risks associated with even minor operations. "Unfortunately there's not a lot of knowledge. We do need much more research and we need much better training and education for doctors and for the patients themselves," she said. Professor Stephan Schug from the University of Western Australia is an expert in post-surgical pain management. He explained that complications did not necessarily reflect a failed surgery, but instead were a necessary risk of modern medicine. "It doesn't mean a surgeon has done something wrong, but it just illustrates that every time you cut into a human being you cause nerve injury," he said. "Under certain circumstances such acute injury can then become a chronic problem." Professor Schug said risk factors included pre-existing pain and those suffering severe pain in the days after surgery. "The first two to three days after surgery, if you have poorly-controlled pain in this period, this might result in sensitisation," he said. "One of the possibly easiest preventative strategies is to optimise the acute post-surgical pain treatment." Topics: health , pain , canberra-2600 , act More stories from Australian Capital Territory What have you always wondered about wildlife in Canberra that you’d like an ABC reporter to investigate? If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC . By political editor Chris Uhlmann The already complicated life of Malcolm Turnbull is about to become harder when Cory Bernardi formally announces he is quitting the Liberal Party, Chris Uhlmann writes. By political reporter Ashlynne McGhee The outspoken conservative senator is expected to formally break with the Liberals and form his own political party. Here's where he stands on key issues. Think you know your sport? Test your knowledge of the sporting week that was with our quiz. Washington's political elite say the world is going to have to get used to a totally disruptive agenda under President Donald Trump. This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced. AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)