Updated February 06, 2017 23:12:00 The Australian Catholic Church has released "grim" data revealing 7 per cent of priests, working between 1950 and 2009, have been accused of child sex crimes. The worst-offending institutions, by proportion of their religious staff, have been shown to be the orders of brothers, who often run schools and homes for the most vulnerable of children. This is the most substantial dataset released to date about the extent of child sex abuse within the Australian Catholic Church , and was done with cooperation from them as part of the Royal Commission into Institutional Responses to Child Sexual Abuse. The church surveyed 10 religious institutes and 75 church authorities to uncover the abuse data on priests, non-ordained brothers and sisters, and other church personnel who were employed between 1950 and 2009. Counsel Gail Furness, SC, said 4,444 alleged child sex abuse incidents were recorded in the survey. Ninety per cent of the victims were boys, with their average age at time of abuse being 11-and-a-half years old. Girls were only 10-and-a-half years old on average when they were abused. Seven per cent of priests ministering in the 60-year period have been accused of child sex offences. This is an even starker figure to similar research carried out in the US which found that from 1950 through June 2015, 5.6 per cent of the 116,153 priests who worked have been accused of child sexual abuse. This map shows the weighted average percentage of accused-perpetrator priests over 60 years. Some dioceses are not included in the map, or the data provided. The Benedictine Community of New Norcia is about two hours north-east of Perth in the Wheatbelt of Western Australia, and holds a monastery that was founded in 1847. It is one of the oldest monasteries in Australia, and has the worst average of child sex abuse complaints against its priests and personnel. Alarming statistics were found within the non-ordained ranks of brothers scattered throughout Australia who often ran, and still run, schools and orphanages. Overall, there were 1,880 alleged perpetrators identified: In the full report there are datasets that appear to show there is very little abuse happening in the last decade of survey — the 2000s. However, in her opening address, Ms Furness revealed some statics about victims which show how to take those statistics with a grain of salt. Ms Furness said the average time it took between a victim being abused and reporting it, or seeking redress, is 33 years — a very long time and an explanation for low figures in the 2000s. There is one dataset that can show us whether or not accused priests and brothers were pushed out of the diocese or institution, and that is a much more worrying picture and reveals how ineffective victims' claims about child sex abuse may have been. This chart shows the percentage of priests or church personnel who were working in these areas or orders even when claims had been made against them. The chosen four below all had a percentage greater than 10 per cent in the final decade reported. Ms Furness noted some institutions that had the lowest reports of abusers in their houses of worship. Notably, the Sisters of Mercy Brisbane and the order founded by Saint Mary MacKillop, Australia's only saint, had the lowest instances of reported abuse. The Diocese of Adelaide had the lowest reported figures of a Catholic diocese. Despite the data covering members of church institutions between 1950 and 2009, the claims data it was matched with only covers claims made between January 1, 1980 and February 28, 2015, so claims reported before then are not included. It only shows where victims sought redress, like compensation, or where the church investigated and substantiated the claim — it does not include complaints made that did not have any follow-up or investigation. The data reports how many Catholic personnel have been reported, but it does not go into detail how prolific the accused paedophiles were and this presents a number of problems. For example, the Maitland-Newcastle diocese is not on the commission's top list of offenders, however Bishop Bill Wright says the region had three or four very prolific offenders. "If you presented the figures a different way — how many victims, survivors of abuse are there — that would look a bit different," he said. "But we have a very considerable number of people who have been abused, but many of them by the same three or four people." The report also leaves out more details on the victims and if they suffered abuse by multiple church personnel. The prevalence of alleged abusers is not calculated for all Catholic Church authorities who were surveyed, another important piece of data missing from the report. The survey sought responses from 75 authorities but only shows results for 26 of those authorities. Any authority with fewer than 20 claims of abuse has been left out. Topics: royal-commissions , sexual-offences , religion-and-beliefs , catholic , australia First posted February 06, 2017 17:11:22 Contact Clare Blumer If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC . By political editor Chris Uhlmann The already complicated life of Malcolm Turnbull is about to become harder when Cory Bernardi formally announces he is quitting the Liberal Party, Chris Uhlmann writes. By political reporter Ashlynne McGhee The outspoken conservative senator is expected to formally break with the Liberals and form his own political party. Here's where he stands on key issues. Think you know your sport? Test your knowledge of the sporting week that was with our quiz. Washington's political elite say the world is going to have to get used to a totally disruptive agenda under President Donald Trump. This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced. AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)