Posted February 08, 2017 00:11:09 Australian Army Chief Angus Campbell was last year asked to join a high powered delegation sent to Washington to convince the new Trump administration to honour the refugee resettlement deal struck with President Barack Obama. Following Donald Trump's shock election win in November, the Federal Government sensed the new US President may want to kill off the arrangement, and promptly dispatched senior immigration officials to the United States to try to save it. The ABC has confirmed Lieutenant General Campbell took part in the hasty diplomatic mission, although the Defence Department is yet to respond to questions about the Army Chief's precise role. Lieutenant General Campbell is well regarded in government ranks and is considered the leading contender to become the next Australian Defence Force Chief. It's not the first time he has been given a tough political assignment. For several years Lieutenant General Campbell served in the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet as head of the Office of National Security — and then rose to public prominence as the first Commander of Operation Sovereign Borders. On Wednesday the Army Chief is due to meet senior Indonesian military figures following last month's breakdown in defence relations. Defence Minister Marise Payne would not be drawn on whether the Government would give the Army Chief any future diplomatic challenges. "I don't think I want to make predictive statements about the future of Lieutenant General Campbell's interests and career life," Senator Payne told the ABC. "He is an exceptional Chief of Army and I enjoy upmost faith in him and enjoy working with him." Topics: government-and-politics , foreign-affairs , army , refugees , donald-trump , australia , united-states Contact Andrew Greene If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC . A Muslim mum speaks out about her family's challenges adjusting to the Tasmanian public school system. By political editor Chris Uhlmann In 1978, a group of Catholic schoolboys was called to make a moral decision. The night before, a Marist brother had tried to assault one of them. Those boys were better disciples than the princes of their Church, Chris Uhlmann writes. By Harry Hayes for Awaye! After Cody Carter died suddenly on a remote outstation during a storm, his family begged to be rescued. Why did WA Police leave them behind? By Clare Blumer, Rebecca Armitage and Simon Elvery The Australian Catholic Church releases "grim" data revealing 7 per cent of priests, working between 1950 and 2009, have been accused of child sex crimes. This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced. AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)