Updated February 07, 2017 06:49:14 Lawyers for Washington state and Minnesota have told a federal appellate court that restoring President Donald Trump's ban on refugees and travellers from seven predominantly Muslim countries would "unleash chaos again". The filing with the 9th US Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco came early on Monday after the White House said it expected the federal courts to reinstate the ban . Washington and Minnesota said their underlying lawsuit was strong and a nationwide temporary restraining order was appropriate. If the appellate court reinstated Mr Trump's ban, the states said, the "ruling would reinstitute those harms, separating families, stranding our university students and faculty, and barring travel". The rapid-fire legal manoeuvres by the two states were accompanied by a declaration filed by John Kerry and Madeleine Albright, former secretaries of state, along with former national security officials under President Barack Obama. They said Mr Trump's ban would disrupt lives and cripple US counter-terrorism partnerships around the world without making the nation safer. "It will aid [the Islamic State terrorist group's] propaganda effort and serve its recruitment message by feeding into the narrative that the United States is at war with Islam," the six-page declaration filed in court read. "Blanket bans of certain countries or classes of people are beneath the dignity of the nation and constitution that we each took oaths to protect." The technology industry also argued against the ban, contending it would harm their companies by making it more difficult to recruit employees. Tech giants including Apple, Google and Uber filed their arguments with the court late on Sunday. The Government has until close of business on Monday (10:00am AEDT) to file a response to the Washington and Minnesota findings. Mr Trump's executive order was founded on a claim of national security, but lawyers for the two states told the court the administration's move hurt residents, businesses and universities and was unconstitutional. The 9th Circuit Court has already turned down a request to set aside immediately the ruling of Seattle's Judge James Robart that put a temporary hold on the ban nationwide. In the latest filing, lawyers for Washington state and Minnesota said: "Defendants now ask this court to unleash chaos again by staying the district court order. The court should decline." That ruling last Friday prompted an ongoing Twitter rant by Mr Trump, who dismissed Judge Robart as a "so-called judge" whose decision was "ridiculous". Mr Trump renewed his Twitter attacks against Judge Robart on Sunday, saying: "Just cannot believe a judge would put our country in such peril. If something happens blame him and court system. People pouring in. Bad!" He followed with another tweet saying he had instructed the Homeland Security Department to check people coming into the country but that "the courts are making the job very difficult!" AP Topics: donald-trump , refugees , immigration , federal-government , government-and-politics , law-crime-and-justice , united-states First posted February 07, 2017 01:23:38 By political editor Chris Uhlmann The already complicated life of Malcolm Turnbull is about to become harder when Cory Bernardi formally announces he is quitting the Liberal Party, Chris Uhlmann writes. By political reporter Ashlynne McGhee The outspoken conservative senator is expected to formally break with the Liberals and form his own political party. Here's where he stands on key issues. Think you know your sport? Test your knowledge of the sporting week that was with our quiz. Washington's political elite say the world is going to have to get used to a totally disruptive agenda under President Donald Trump. This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced. AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)