Updated February 07, 2017 06:26:51 Desperate families in northern New South Wales are calling for help to end a spate of youth suicides around Grafton, with at least six teens taking their own lives in the past 12 months. Community worker Mark McGrath said there were fears suicide had become normalised in the community, and he was worried there may be more. "I field calls on a weekly basis from extremely frustrated parents who are often crying at the other end of the phone desperate to try and get their kids into some kind of service," he told 7.30. "And to try and access some of the very little services we have could be up to a three-month wait; that's far too long for a young person who's in crisis. "Unless some significant changes happen in the valley and we see a large injection of funds and rapid development of services and supports, I would say it [another suicide] was inevitable." Every evening, Emma Powell's friends and family congregate on the shores of the Clarence River to remember the 16-year-old. "The reason we go to the river is it's how we connect, there's energy and the river flows and it's a place that Emma would escape to," Emma's mother Shannon Powell told 7.30. "When we go there we feel that we are connecting with her. "Our friends come and the children all come and we sit and laugh and tell stories about her and watch the sun go down … it is just beautiful, it is a real spiritual connection." Emma ended her life in December after struggling with depression for years. "She presented a happy face to everyone," Ms Powell said. "If you looked at her or you looked at her pictures, you would think 'what's wrong with her? She doesn't look like there's anything wrong; what do you mean she's got a mental health illness?" In fact, Emma spoke openly about her battles with depression and anxiety, urging others not to suffer in silence. "She was one of those people who was there for everyone else even though she was hurting herself," her friend Courtney told 7.30. Emma even gave an address on RUOK Day last year, urging anyone having dark thoughts to reach out and ask for help. Her friends did their best to try to help Emma. "We tried everything to help her but she needed to want to help herself," her friend Noemi told 7.30. "And she just couldn't in the end, I guess." Another friend Phoebe added: "Emma always had to have her phone. "She thrived on social media and she wanted to be the perfect girl — she wanted to be tanned, she wanted to be skinny, just like any other 16-year-old girl wants to be. "I know that Emma didn't feel good enough, she felt she needed to be something else to please other people." Mr McGrath said he believed the reasons behind the spate of suicides in the region were complex. "It's not just a single issue, I think it's a range of things that have just pulled together and somehow we have ended up with this perfect storm," he said. "It is multi-layered. I think it's a combination of a decade of migrating services to our other regional areas like Coffs Harbour and Lismore. "One of the other contributing factors is just the lack of job opportunities for young people in the region." And then there is the lack of access to treatment. "[Emma's problem] was escalating and we kept reaching out for help to the mental health and to the hospitals and we'd ring up and take her there and they'd say, 'no, she's fine'," Ms Powell said. "We definitely felt that we were coming to an end, because there was no type of assistance or no details that would give us any more advice or any more help. "[We] were asking for help but it wasn't available." Frustrated with waiting for change, the local community is raising funds to set up education programs for parents, schools and the broader community to provide support while they are waiting for professional or clinical services. "[Suicide] just destroys everything, everyone, communities, whole families, touches everyone and then you get the fear that in two months' time there could be someone else and you just don't want to see it happen," Emma's father Michael Powell told 7.30. "No more. It's got to stop. It corrodes at you and it's life changing and it will never be the same." So if he could, what would Mr Powell tell Health Minister Greg Hunt? "I would tell him to come for a drive with me. And let's go and see the different organisations in the community and talk with these people who deal with it daily and get on-the-ground skills," he said. "Don't wait for the report and don't look at spreadsheets, don't look at the numbers, just come for a drive with me." Mr Hunt told 7.30 on Monday night he would accept Mr Powell's invitation. "I will visit and meet with Emma's family," he said. "If you ask me what would be the single most important thing that I could do in my job over the coming years, it would be to deal with youth suicide." Mr Hunt also announced the Government would expand its $46 million suicide prevention trial to four more regions: Darwin, Central Queensland, western NSW and mid-west Western Australia. This is in addition to the eight trial sites already announced for Brisbane north, North Coast NSW, north-western Melbourne, Perth south, Townsville, the Kimberley, Tasmania and country South Australia. "This is about more outreach workers, people who are on the ground, people who can work with each community and I think it is important to understand that different communities that have higher than average loss of life, terrible tragedy, might have them for different reasons," he said. "It is about finding the right response for each area. It could be a community with drought. It could be a community with ice. It could be a community with simply a culture and a climate where things have got out of hand and there is just a sense of deep loss or hopelessness." Topics: suicide , mental-health , federal-government , health-policy , social-media , youth , emotions , grief , regional , bullying , adolescent-health , grafton-2460 First posted February 06, 2017 17:39:39 More stories from New South Wales If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC . By political editor Chris Uhlmann The already complicated life of Malcolm Turnbull is about to become harder when Cory Bernardi formally announces he is quitting the Liberal Party, Chris Uhlmann writes. By political reporter Ashlynne McGhee The outspoken conservative senator is expected to formally break with the Liberals and form his own political party. Here's where he stands on key issues. Think you know your sport? Test your knowledge of the sporting week that was with our quiz. Washington's political elite say the world is going to have to get used to a totally disruptive agenda under President Donald Trump. This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced. AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)