Posted February 07, 2017 19:12:10 One of the doctors involved in the highly anticipated rematch between boxers Anthony Mundine and Danny Green has slammed the decision to continue the fight after Green was concussed in the first round. Ringside doctor Lou Lewis said he quit his role mid-fight last Friday night because his opinion was ignored. In a fight within a fight, the two doctors present disagreed about whether Green was fit to continue after being caught off guard by a Mundine blow. Despite four decades of ringside experience, Dr Lewis was overruled by Dr John O'Neill and the referee. "I was saying ... the fight should be stopped, I don't want it to go on ... [but] I didn't want to have a fight in the ring with another doctor," Dr Lewis said. "I said to the referee: 'Are you stopping the fight?' The referee said 'No' ... [and] I said: 'I'm having nothing more to do with this fight'." Other medical experts also have expressed a view the injured boxer was in danger. "Another serious blow when he's already concussed, it is no exaggeration to say, could have been fatal," Dr Michael Gannon of the Australian Medical Association said. Green admitted he was concussed after one round but said he had wanted to fight on. "I'm just going 'let's fight, let's fight, I'm good to go' because that's what you do if you're a warrior," he told the media this week. "You just do that. You wanna fight, you don't know what the rules are — mate I didn't know if I was Arthur or Martha." Dr Peter Lewis of the Australasian Ringside Medicine Association also backed the view that the fight should have ended early. "I'll give you a straight answer, I think I would have called the fight off," he said. "When you've suffered a blow like that you're concussed so you're not really able to make rational decisions in your own self interest." Green fought on for nine more rounds and won the bout and a multi-million-dollar prize for his efforts. Topics: boxing , sport , doctors-and-medical-professionals , occupational-health-and-safety , health , adelaide-5000 , sa More stories from South Australia If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC . A Muslim mum speaks out about her family's challenges adjusting to the Tasmanian public school system. By political editor Chris Uhlmann In 1978, a group of Catholic schoolboys was called to make a moral decision. The night before, a Marist brother had tried to assault one of them. Those boys were better disciples than the princes of their Church, Chris Uhlmann writes. By Harry Hayes for Awaye! After Cody Carter died suddenly on a remote outstation during a storm, his family begged to be rescued. Why did WA Police leave them behind? By Clare Blumer, Rebecca Armitage and Simon Elvery The Australian Catholic Church releases "grim" data revealing 7 per cent of priests, working between 1950 and 2009, have been accused of child sex crimes. This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced. AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)