Front page layout Site theme Sign up or login to join the discussions! Lena Corner for Mosaic - Feb 7, 2017 1:00 pm UTC Carmela Torres was 18 when she became pregnant for the first time. It was 1987, and she and her now-husband, Pablo Hernandez, were two idealistic young Colombians born in the coastal region of Montería who moved to the capital, Bogotá, in search of freedom and a better life. When Torres told her father she was expecting, he was so angered by the thought of his daughter having a child out of wedlock that they didn’t speak to each other for years. Torres remained undaunted. Her pregnancy was trouble-free and she had a new life in Bogotá to get on with. But one December afternoon, suddenly, out of nowhere, her body began to convulse with sharp contractions. It was more than two months before her due date. She called Hernandez and together they rushed to the Instituto Materno Infantil (Mother and Child Hospital) in eastern Bogotá. Not long after arriving, she gave birth naturally to a baby boy weighing just 1,650 grams (3lb 10oz). Before she had a chance to hold him, her baby was whisked off to a neonatal intensive care unit. Torres was simply told to get dressed and go home. “I didn’t even get to touch him,” she says. “They said I could come back and see him but the visiting times were very restricted—just a couple of hours a day. When I did visit I was allowed to look but not touch.” On the third day, she was at home preparing for her next visit when the phone rang. “It was the hospital,” she says. “They called to say my baby was dead. They didn’t tell me the cause of death or give me any diagnosis. Just that he was dead. I hadn’t even named him yet.” Torres was traumatized. She became gripped with an acute feeling of isolation and started spiraling into depression. She knew she needed to do something to pull herself back, so she enrolled in a teacher-training program and immersed herself in her studies. “It gave me something to focus on,” she says. “It saved me.” A decade passed before Torres was ready to become pregnant again. This time around, it was different. By now she was married to Rivera and well settled in Bogotá. Her father had even started talking to her again. She was so excited about giving birth that, a couple of months before her due date, she decided to throw a big baby shower. But on the day of the party, familiar, severe contractions ripped through her body, stopping her in her tracks. She smiled, told no one, and pretended it wasn’t happening. By evening, once all the guests were gone, she could hide it no longer. She told Hernandez, who again rushed her straight to the Instituto Materno Infantil. Like Mosaic stories? From time to time, Ars has republished the work of Mosaic (under Creative Commons) on everything from possible forms of alien life to the history of foreskin . Now, we're helping them with a study to understand people’s views about science-related articles, and we would appreciate your opinion. If you’d like to be part of this online survey, please click here . “When we got there the doctor was furious with me for not coming earlier. He said I was ready to give birth,” says Torres. “I was petrified, I didn’t want another premature baby. I was taken to the exact same ward as where I had my baby which died. Memories came flooding back. I was extremely stressed.” At one o’clock the next morning, Torres gave birth to another boy. She named him immediately, calling him Julian. He weighed almost the same as her firstborn and just like then, he was whisked straight into intensive care. History, it seemed, was repeating itself. “I spent a very frightening night panicking that I was about to lose another baby,” she says. “But the next morning a doctor came to see me. She told me about a thing called Kangaroo Mother Care—how I could act as a human incubator and carry my own baby and take it home with me. It was a ray of light at the end of the tunnel. Anything rather than leave my baby there.” That day, Torres was taught how to hold her baby under her clothing, upright between her breasts with his airways clear. She was taught how even the finest layer of fabric between her and her baby wasn’t allowed—it had to be continuous and direct skin-to-skin contact. She was taught how to breastfeed, how to sleep on her back propped up by cushions, and strictly never to bathe him as this would waste his precious energy. Remarkably, the very next afternoon with her tiny baby strapped to her chest under a blanket, Torres walked out of hospital. “Julian was very small and fragile but I was much happier taking him home with me than leaving him there, where my other baby had died,” she says. “Feeding him wasn’t easy, but I had a lot of help. At first I had to go back every day for follow-up appointments and I was given a cellphone number that I could call any time I needed. We had to go back in when Julian got an infection on his umbilical cord and for phototherapy when he got jaundice, but in all I carried him for a month 24 hours a day, sharing shifts with my husband, until he hit his target weight of 2,500g. Once he’d reached that, we didn’t have to do it any more and finally he got his first bath.” Kangaroo Mother Care (KMC) is the brainchild of Colombian pediatrician Edgar Rey, who introduced it to the Instituto Materno Infantil in 1978. It was an idea born out of desperation. The institute served the city’s poorest—those who lived crammed in the rickety makeshift dwellings in the foothills of the surrounding mountains. At the time, this was the biggest neonatal unit in all of Colombia, responsible for delivering 30,000 babies a year. Overcrowding was so bad that three babies would have to share an incubator at a time and the rate of cross-infection was high. Death rates were spiraling, and so too was the level of abandonment. Many young, impoverished mothers who never even got to touch their babies found it easier just to take off. Scouting around for a solution to these problems, Rey happened upon a paper on the physiology of the kangaroo. It mentioned how at birth, kangaroos are bald and roughly the size of a peanut—very immature, just like a human pre-term baby. Once in its mother’s pouch, the kangaroo receives thermal regulation from the direct skin-to-skin contact afforded by its lack of hair. It then latches onto its mother’s nipple, where it remains until it has grown to roughly a quarter of its mother’s weight, when it is finally ready to emerge into the world. This struck a chord with Rey. He went back to the institute and decided to test it out. He trained mothers of premature babies to carry them just as kangaroos do. Working alongside his colleague Hector Martinez, he taught them the importance of breastfeeding and discharged them just as soon as their babies were able. The results were remarkable. Death rates and infection levels dropped immediately. Overcrowding was reduced because hospital stays were much shorter, incubators were freed up, and the number of abandoned babies fell. It’s 8am and already the shiny new KMC unit at the San Ignacio University Hospital in downtown Bogotá is packed to the rafters. Rows and rows of women, and a surprisingly high number of men, too, squeeze together—a sea of colorful knitted hats and chunky coats, protection against the city’s unpredictable cycle of hail, rain, and heat. They sit on narrow pews in the center of the room, with the tiniest little heads peeping skyward on their chests. It’s warm, buzzy, and a million miles away from the sterile atmosphere of a typical neonatal intensive care unit. Many seem to have settled in for the day—one woman has her knitting out and another has her extended family in tow. Five pediatricians stand in a row behind a long, high bench examining baby after baby, testing their responses and bending their limbs this way and that. On an average day, they will see more than 100. For a room full of newborns, it’s oddly peaceful. Not one of them is screaming. Enlarge / Pediatricians examining babies, "testing their responses and bending their limbs this way and that." ©Juliana Gomez “Traditional units are closed and have very restrictive visiting hours,” says Nathalie Charpak, the formidable French pediatrician who now heads the unit and lives just a short walk away. “An important element of KMC is that the unit is open and parents have access so they can sit with their infants, connect with each other, and gain confidence seeing others with very small babies doing the same thing. Evidence shows there is less infection when units are open like this because the parents are checking to ensure the health professionals are washing their hands.” In one corner, intensive breastfeeding sessions are taking place. Eleanora Rodrigez, a 26-year old from northern Bogotá, had just returned from a walk in the park when her waters unexpectedly broke. She gave birth to twins Henry (1,700g) and Joaquim (1,45g) at 32 weeks. Her slightly jittery husband hovers about trying to second-guess their every need. Today, Rodrigez is being taught how to give surprisingly tough massages across her babies’ heads, foreheads, upper lips, and chins to stimulate their sucking motion. Joaquim in particular keeps nodding off. “It’s really hard,” says Rodrigez, struggling to untangle both her babies from their oxygen tubes. “They are feeding every two hours. They have to gain 15g per kg every day, the same growth as they would have had in the womb. If this is happening, we know things are OK. I’m just waiting till they hit the magic 2,500g (about 5.5lbs).” In a side room, a clinical psychologist is doing a session with a small group of mostly nervous-looking teenage mothers. One looks barely into her teens, and her baby is so tiny you might be scared to even touch it, yet the mother wanders around with her child dangling from her arm with an insouciance that only youth can bring. All the babies here are born at less than 37 weeks or weigh below 2,500g. Yesterday, a bubbly 11-year-old girl popped in with her mother. She had been a kangaroo baby herself, born here at 29 weeks and weighing just 500g. Charpak, the pediatrician, moved from France to Bogotá in 1986 after falling in love with a Colombian university professor. She wound up at the Instituto Materno Infantil working alongside Rey and Martinez. Charpak couldn’t believe the results she was witnessing. She understood immediately the need for rigorous scientific studies to prove to the world they were on to something very special. In 1989, she did a study on a sample of babies from two of the very poorest hospitals in the city. She proved scientifically that KMC was safe—even the smallest premature babies weren’t dying if you took them out of the incubator. In 1994, with funding from a Swiss NGO, she did a much larger randomized trial, which proved conclusively that not only were babies dying less, but breastfeeding rates were up, hospital stays were shorter, and infection was down. Her findings were published in Pediatrics journal in 1997. Charpak now lives with her husband and two sons (a third is studying in St Petersburg) in a large apartment at the top of a redbrick tower on Seventh Street. She’s in her 60s now and has lived in Bogotá for 30 years. Every day she makes the short walk over the uneven pavements, through the famously perilous traffic, to her unit at the San Ignacio. Her father, Georges Charpak, won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1992 for the invention and development of particle detectors. For Nathalie, KMC has become her life’s work. On top of her clinical work, she is director of an NGO that researches and promotes KMC, the Fundación Canguro—the Kangaroo Foundation. Employed alongside her at the Foundation is Julieta Villegas, who is clearly being groomed to take on the KMC mantle whenever Charpak is ready to step aside. That, however, isn’t any time soon. “I’m Nathalie’s replacement,” is Villegas’s brazen introduction. The pair are an undeniable force, driven by an unwavering belief in KMC. It’s hard not to share their enthusiasm. There are now more than 1,600 studies which show KMC does so much more than just help a baby put on weight. Research shows, for example, that a kangaroo baby bonds better with its parents than pre-term babies given conventional care. Its heart and respiratory rates improve better. It is more equipped to self-regulate and so is calmer and better able to sleep. Kangaroo mothers, too, perhaps given a sense of purpose after the guilt they often feel about giving birth prematurely, experience less post-natal depression. And most remarkably, tests done on kangaroo babies at 12 months old show they have higher IQs and better cognitive development than those given conventional care. “It is clear KMC is about much more than just saving the baby’s life,” says Charpak. “It is about allowing the baby to thrive and giving it the best possible quality of life. I have fought all my life to show that KMC has nothing to do with comfort or massage or anything fluffy like that. It is difficult to do and each baby is carefully followed up every six weeks for the first year, but the benefits are extraordinary.” You must login or create an account to comment.