Front page layout Site theme Sign up or login to join the discussions! Valentina Palladino - Feb 7, 2017 3:23 pm UTC Just because Jawbone can sell wearables in the US doesn't mean it will. A report from TechCrunch suggests the wearables company won't be selling consumer fitness trackers anymore and will instead focus on B2B devices. This news comes after multiple reports of Jawbone's financial troubles and fights with rival Fitbit. According to the report, Jawbone is trying to raise money to make the switch from selling products to consumers to selling devices to the medical community. The company plans to create a medical-grade device that it can sell or license to clinicians and health providers, along with a variety of software services to accompany that device. Rumors dating back nearly a year ago suggest Jawbone has been working on a medical device for a long time. However, those reports suggested Jawbone was planning on coming out with that medical device last year, but it failed to appear. Jawbone hasn't updated its consumer hardware in nearly two years. The company's financial struggles have been well-documented: Jawbone sold off part of its speaker business (which it had before getting into wearables), it reportedly couldn't pay one of its customer-service partners (and since then, consumers have been trying and failing to connect with the company to get questions answered), and you can no longer purchase any of its Up wearables from the Jawbone website. All evidence points to Jawbone leaving the consumer wearables space at the very least; whether or not that medical device ever sees the light of day will ultimately depend on the company's ability to secure funding going forward. Amid all this uncertainty, Jawbone remains certain about one thing: fighting with Fitbit. The two companies have gone back and forth with lawsuits over the past few years. At the end of 2016, Fitbit dropped a case it previously filed with the US International Trade Commission claiming Jawbone had violated one of Fitbit's patents. If the case had gone to trial and Fitbit had won, Jawbone wouldn't have been able to import devices into the US. Now, Jawbone says that Fitbit is being investigated by a grand jury for stealing trade secrets. This issue goes back to 2015, when Jawbone claimed Fitbit hired five Jawbone employees who then brought confidential information about Jawbone's devices with them to their new positions at Fitbit. Jawbone isn't backing down from this case despite the fact that Fitbit is looking to get it dismissed. You must login or create an account to comment.