Front page layout Site theme Sign up or login to join the discussions! Tom Mendelsohn (UK) - Feb 6, 2017 3:35 pm UTC In the UK, people caught shining lasers at pilots and bus and train drivers will face harsher punishments if a newly proposed law from the British government is waved through by parliament. The Department for Transport (DfT) estimates there to be around 1,500 laser attacks on aircraft per year in the country, a crime which comes with a fine of up to £2,500 (~$3,100). However, UK police believe they do not currently have sufficient powers to investigate or prosecute laser attacks on other forms of transportation, and they feel the rules surrounding attacks on aircraft are too limited. Further Reading A three-second laser strike cost Barry Bowser everything At present, British police looking to charge someone for an attack have to prove that a suspect has endangered the aircraft when shining a laser at it. Under the government's new proposals, police "will only have to prove the offence of shining the laser." Such a change would bring UK laser attack laws more in line with US policy. Here, under 18 US Code § 39A , authorities must only prove that an attacker "knowingly aims the beam of a laser pointer at an aircraft" instead of also proving endangerment. The US law carries a penalty of fines, up to five years of imprisonment, or both. Last year through October 22, the Federal Aviation Association noted 5,564 reported laser strike incidents took place nationwide. The wording of the UK's planned legislation has yet to be released, but the government has confirmed that it will be included in a larger package of reforms under the umbrella of the Vehicle Technology and Aviation Bill—a new piece of draft law that is yet to be tabled in parliament. It's possible that the bill will be introduced by the Queen during the state opening of parliament—which usually takes place in May. Alternatively, Whitehall may have decided to rename the yet-to-be published Modern Transport Bill, which was tabled by the government last year but has apparently been delayed by "other business to deal with in the House" —the other business undoubtedly being Brexit. The Modern Transport Bill seeks to regulate—among other things—ultra-low emission and autonomous vehicles, the safety of commercial and personal drone flights, and the future development of the UK's first commercial spaceports. A policy on laser pointer attacks could neatly be folded into that draft legislation. Ars UK sought clarity from the DfT to find out if the two bills are indeed the same, but at time of publication we were told that our press inquiry was "with the officials." Transport secretary Chris Grayling said "we know there have been similar attacks on trains and buses" involving the use of laser pens. He added: Shining a laser pointer at pilots or drivers is incredibly dangerous and could have fatal consequences. Whilst we know laser pens can be fun and many users have good intentions, some are not aware of the risks of dazzling drivers or pilots putting public safety at risk. That’s why we want to take the common sense approach to strengthen our laws to protect the public from those who are unaware of the dangers or even worse, intentionally want to cause harm. This kind of dangerous behaviour risks lives and must be stopped. The British Transport Police recorded more than 100 such attacks during a two-year period. "Deliberately shining a laser pen or pointer at a train, particularly if a driver is targeted, is extremely dangerous," said assistant chief constable Alun Thomas. "People shining lasers at trains may not think their actions are serious, but they are endangering the safety of train drivers and passengers. Further Reading Man who shot laser at ferry slapped with £70,000 fine "In 2014 and 2015, we recorded 118 incidents where lasers were shone directly at drivers and any new powers to help us investigate these types of offences and bring those involved to justice would be welcomed." The DfT remained light on the detail, however, saying only that the "powers and penalties for the offence will be outlined" in the proposed law. Additional reporting by Kelly Fiveash This post originated on Ars Technica UK You must login or create an account to comment.