Share this with Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn Copy this link RAF fighter jets have diverted a Pakistan International Airlines plane to Stansted Airport. Stansted said the flight from Lahore to Heathrow had landed in Essex at 14:50 GMT after being escorted by Typhoons. Essex Police said the diversion had been due to reports of a disruptive passenger and was "not believed to be a hijack situation or terror matter". The plane is being held away from the airport and is expected to continue its journey. Stansted is open as usual. An Essex police spokesman said: "An aircraft was diverted to Stansted Airport at around 3pm this afternoon while over UK airspace en route to Heathrow Airport due to reports of a disruptive passenger on board. "The plane is currently at the airport and officers are making enquiries. There is no disruption to the ongoing operation of Stansted Airport." Essex Police later said the Airbus A330 had been diverted because a man wanted by the Metropolitan Police was on board. However, Pakistan International Airlines said in a statement that UK authorities had received "some vague security threat through an anonymous phone call" regarding the flight. Pakistan's Civil Aviation Authority tweeted : "#PIA flight bound for Heathrow from Lahore has been diverted to #Stansted due to reasons aboard the aircraft." Stansted said the aircraft was likely to continue its journey to Heathrow on Tuesday, pending police inquiries. The RAF confirmed that Quick Reaction Alert (QRA) Typhoon aircraft had been scrambled from RAF Coningsby, in Lincolnshire. Stansted is a designated airport for dealing with hijacks and major security alerts. Such incidents are dealt with in a remote part of the airfield to the north-west of the terminal building. Are you on board the flight? Get in touch by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk . Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also contact us in the following ways: Or use the form below If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions. Terms and conditions Ministers seek to win over MPs who want to get a "meaningful" vote on any Brexit deal. A photographer's journey with the people struggling to cross the US-Mexican border Top tips to becoming a homeowner by the age of 25 The people who had a troubled time with awards and medals How the BBC covered Trump's 'under-reported' terror attacks Seven things we spotted in the Oscars photo Who else does not own a bathrobe? Are you sure apps are enough to keep your kids safe online?