Share this with Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn Copy this link A murderer who was jailed for killing a Metropolitan Police officer and trying to dissolve his body in acid has died in prison. Stefano Brizzi, 51, was sentenced to life in prison in 2016 for murdering PC Gordon Semple and was ordered to serve at least 24 years in jail. The Ministry of Justice (MoJ) confirmed Brizzi, an HMP Belmarsh prisoner, died in custody on Sunday. His trial was told he had tried to eat his victim's flesh. Brizzi denied trying to cannibalise parts of PC Semple, 59, from Greenhithe in Kent, by cooking and then biting into a rib. But at his sentencing, the prosecution said an expert odontologist had since confirmed that even though Brizzi claimed not to remember it, he had in fact tried to eat flesh. He was caught when neighbours reported a foul smell coming from his flat in south London. The pair met on the dating app Grindr and at his trial Brizzi claimed PC Semple, who was originally from Inverness, had died during a "sex game gone wrong". Jurors did not believe him and found Brizzi guilty of murder by a majority of 10-2 after five days of deliberation. The court was told Brizzi was a fan of the US TV show Breaking Bad in which the protagonists dissolve a rival drug dealer in a bath filled with acid. When investigators visited Brizzi's flat in south London they found "globules" of flesh floating in the bath, plus bags containing bones and pools of human fat in the oven. In a statement the MoJ said: "HMP Belmarsh prisoner Stefano Brizzi died in custody on Sunday. "As with all deaths in custody there will be an independent investigation by the Prisons and Probation Ombudsman." The MoJ has not indicated a cause of death and said that would be determined by a coroner. No date has been given for an inquest. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites The Speaker says it is important to oppose racism and sexism, as he sets out his stance to MPs. What really happened when a girl went missing in 2008? The man who gives free haircuts to jobseekers How Gaga and ads got political Alastair Cook 'had tough ride as England captain' The real story behind YouTube rumours Do we still need the British market? The man who protects $4tn of people's cash