Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world. Americas +1 212 318 2000 Europe, Middle East, Africa +44 20 7330 7500 Asia Pacific +65 6212 1000 Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world. Americas +1 212 318 2000 Europe, Middle East, Africa +44 20 7330 7500 Asia Pacific +65 6212 1000 People demonstrate in front of Romanian Government headquarters against controversial decrees to pardon corrupt politicians and decriminalize other offenses, on Jan. 31, in Bucharest. The European Union s second-poorest nation faces a new round of turmoil, a little over a year since popular outrage over corruption sank the prime minister. Romania s Social Democrats returned to power in December s election and quickly angered citizens by unexpectedly approving legal changes that represent a setback to the country s unprecedented crackdown on graft. In the biggest street protests since the fall of Communist rule in 1989, Romanians demanded the resignation of government officials starting with Justice Minister Florin Iordache. Romanian riot police stand as people demonstrate in Bucharest. Prime Minister Sorin Grindeanu s cabinet issued an emergency decree decriminalizing abuse-of-office offenses that result in less than 200,000 lei ($48,000) of damages. On top of that, there ll be no prosecutions of public servants charged with abusing their positions in relation to passing or designing legislation. The government also approved a bill pardoning people serving prison sentences shorter than five years, excluding rapists and repeat offenders. None of the proposals appeared in the cabinet meeting s public agenda, prompting questions over transparency. Iordache says the steps will reduce prison overcrowding, for which Romania could face penalties from the European Court for Human Rights. The protesters see the move as a means of freeing corrupt officials and shielding others from investigation -- like Social Democratic leader Liviu Dragnea, who s on trial for abuse of power after already being handed a suspended sentence for trying to fix a referendum. Prosecutors are currently working on more than 2,000 abuse-of-office cases. Keep up with the best of Bloomberg Politics. Get our newsletter daily. Sign Up It ranks fourth-worst for graft in the 28-member EU, according to Berlin-based Transparency International. That said, it can boast one of the bloc s most sweeping clampdowns of recent times. The initiative , akin to Italy s 1990s Clean Hands campaign, has sent more than 5,000 officials to trial since 2012, included a sitting prime minister and dozens of other cabinet members. Cases pursued by prosecutors in the past two years alone involve more than 1 billion euros ($1.1 billion) of damages. Having initially refused to back down, the government eventually reversed course on the controversial measures. This did nothing to curb the protests, which saw a record turnout the following day. While Grindeanu may also fire Iordache, President Klaus Iohannis says the cabinet must go further. Iohannis has said early elections aren t necessary at this stage. While the leu initially weakened the most against the euro in more than two years, it s since recouped that loss as the government adopted a more accommodating stance toward the protesters. S P Global Ratings said risks to Romania s investment-grade status are currently balanced, though it warned that the turmoil could dent investor confidence and harm growth, which is among the EU s fastest. Not really. Romania s strain of populism arguably came from the government itself in the form of tax cuts and state-salary hikes that won over voters in the run-up to last year s election. The Social Democrats triumph in that ballot seems to have emboldened them to test the limits of their power, as administrations in Poland and Hungary have done. The EU has raised concerns over damage to democracy in those two places and is similarly worried about the government s actions in Romania.