Stocks across Europe had a painful day on Monday, with all of the continent's major bourses dragged lower to start the week. The biggest loser of the major indexes on the continent was Italy's FTSE MIB, down 2.08%, while in more peripheral markets Portugal's PSI 20 dropped 2.48%. Italy's benchmark index was pulled down by the country's banks, including a 6.9% fall from its biggest lender, UniCredit. Other big losers were Banco BPM (down 5.85%) and Banco Popolare Emilio Romagna (down 5.71%). At the other end of the index, only two individual stocks gained — Telecom Italia (up 1.41%) and CNH Industrial (up 3.13%). Here is the MIB's chart: Investing.com Elsewhere on the continent, Germany's DAX fell 1.22%, with all 30 stocks on the index falling. Commerzbank, the country's second biggest lender, dropped 2.91%. European stocks had rallied on Friday, gaining a big boost from good jobs numbers out of the USA, however that momentum was abruptly halted on Monday with markets seeing a risk-off day of trading. Writing an hour before the close, Jasper Lawler, Senior Market analyst at London Capital Group said:  "There was a more risk-off tone to markets on Monday . Traditional havens including gold, the Japanese yen and the US dollar were sought after whilst stocks, the euro and crude oil were shunned. European election apprehension saw investors dump French and German shares while the euro sank during Mario Draghi’s testimony to the European parliament." Speaking to the European parliament's Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee in Brussels on Monday , ECB President Draghi covered a broad range of topics and affirmed that the bank is willing to extend quantitative easing further. He also addressed comments from a member of President Donald Trump's staff about the bank's role in the forex markets, saying:  "We are not currency manipulators."   Draghi's comments follow a war of words that developed last week after Trump adviser Peter Navarro took aim at Germany for  using a "grossly undervalued" euro to its advantage against other nations in the European Union and against the United States. Britain's FTSE 100 got off relatively lightly compared to Eurozone indexes, losing just 0.25%, after gaining support from gold miner Randgold Resources. Randgold closed more than 4% higher following an upbeat trading update out on Monday morning. The index was dragged by Tesco and British Airways' parent IAG (both down 2.15%). Here is the full scoreboard of European bourse: Investing.com Stocks across Europe had a painful day on... How this astronaut overcame failure and rejection to land his dream job More Idea Factory  » We just created the best Google Chrome extension on the market for latest news headlines More BI Innovations  » Get the best of Business Insider delivered to your inbox every day. Available on iOS or Android