Toby Melville/Reuters LONDON — MPs will on Monday afternoon begin debating and voting on a number of amendments to the Brexit bill. The debates will be long, confusing and ultimately mind-numbing to most people outside of the chamber. So to help you through the ordeal, here's our five-minute guide to what you can expect. What is the Brexit bill? The European Union (notification of withdrawal) Bill is designed to give the prime minister Theresa May the power to trigger Article 50 — the two-year process through which Britain can leave the EU. To find out more you can To find out more you can read our previous five-minute guide to the bill. So what will MPs be voting on? Literally hundreds of amendments have been submitted by MPs from across the House. These include demands on everything for a final vote on May's Brexit deal, to calls for Britain to commit to staying in the EU if no final deal is made. Only three days have been allocated by the government to debate all these amendments. Amendment to retain existing EU membership if Theresa May fails to get a Brexit deal. #article50bill pic.twitter.com/TPBCgwGzqv — Adam Bienkov (@AdamBienkov) February 6, 2017 Surely that's impossible. How are they going to get through them? It's true that it would be physically impossible for MPs to vote on all the amendments that have been submitted. Because of this, the Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, Deputy Speaker Lindsay Hoyle, will have to whittle them down. Because of this, the Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, Deputy Speaker Lindsay Hoyle, will have to whittle them down to a select few.  Whittle them down? How will he do that? The first thing he has to do is decide which of the amendments are 'in order'. Under parliamentary standing Under parliamentary standing orders, amendments will only be considered if they are within the "scope of the bill." The brexit bill only has one operative clause and has been deliberately tightly written by the government to reduce that scope. As a result, large numbers of the amendments submitted by MPs are likely to fall by the wayside. Once Hoyle has decided which amendments are in order he will then group them together on similar topics. These will then be voted on as one, so as to avoid duplication. The titles of just a small selection of the hundreds of amendments submitted by MPs to the #brexitbill #article50bill pic.twitter.com/iuaV9nXoUi — Adam Bienkov (@AdamBienkov) February 6, 2017 What will MPs vote on first? The first votes on Monday afternoon will be dedicated to amendments "relating to parliamentary scrutiny of the process for the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union." These include demands for ministers to publish regular reports and statements on the progress of the Brexit negotiations. None of this is particularly controversial given that the Brexit Secretary David Davis has already committed to doing just that. MPs will only have a total of four hours to debate and vote on these before moving onto the next batch of amendments. What will the second batch be on? This next batch is potentially more interesting. These will relate to amendments on "the devolved administrations or legislatures." These include calls for the devolved administrations, such as the Scottish Parliament, to be consulted on areas that directly affect them as well as demands for regional funding to be maintained post-Brexit. The SNP were particularly aggrieved at the Supreme Court's ruling that the Sewel Convention, whereby devolved administrations must be allowed to vote on legislation that directly affects them, is not legally enforceable . They are therefore keen to insert some binding powers into the bill. MPs will be given a total of seven hours to debate and vote on this batch of amendments. That sounds exhausting. Will it end there? Only for the day. MPs will then meet again on Tuesday when some of the more contentious amendments will be heard. Contentious? Tell me more The most interesting amendments will be on whether or not MPs will be given a "meaningful vote" on May's final Brexit deal. At the moment the government is committed to giving Parliament a final vote. However, if MPs reject the deal which May puts on the table then it would result in Britain simply falling out of the EU without any deal at all. MPs from across the House want to prevent that from happening. There is a reasonable chance that enough Tory rebels will join with the opposition in order to force May to commit to holding an earlier and more "meaningful" vote. Parliament TV Are ministers worried? Downing Street believe that these amendments are an attempt to either slow down the Brexit process or "remain in the EU by the back door." They have therefore ordered every one of their MPs to be on hand so as to avoid a surprise government defeat. Even the practice of 'pairing,' by which those MPs who are not able to vote in person 'pair' with their opposite numbers in order to cancel our their votes, has been suspended in a sign of how worried ministers are. What are the other risks for the government? On Wednesday MPs will vote on the final round of amendments which focus on "the priorities in negotiations for the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union." These will cover a huge range of topics. However, one area where the government is vulnerable is on whether or not EU citizens resident in the UK will be guaranteed to retain their status post-Brexit. The government have previously caused outrage, including among Tory MPs, by refusing to commit to maintaining this before negotiations begin. International Trade Secretary Liam Fox said last year that they would not be doing so because EU citizens were "one of our main cards" in negotiations. There is a decent chance that enough Tory MPs will rebel on this and force the government to state that EU citizens who are resident here will be allowed to stay no matter what. So what happens next? Once all of the amendments have either been passed or defeated, MPs will then vote on the "third reading" of the bill. Since Labour has already promised not to "frustrate" passage of the bill, this will almost certainly be a formality. The bill will then pass to the House of Lords, after the Parliamentary recess finishes on February 17. The Lords will then have their own chance to vote on amendments, which if passed, will then go back to the Commons for further debates and votes. It will then go back and forth between the two houses in a sort of parliamentary ping-pong until both are agreed. The bill will go for a final reading at some point in early March. If successful May will then be given the power to trigger Article 50, which she will do at some point before March 31. At that point, Britain will begin its long-anticipated two-year long negotiations to leave the EU. LONDON MPs will on Monday... How this astronaut overcame failure and rejection to land his dream job More Idea Factory  » We just created the best Google Chrome extension on the market for latest news headlines More BI Innovations  » Get the best of Business Insider delivered to your inbox every day. Available on iOS or Android