Both mortgage rates and housing prices are expected to rise this year. Pool/Getty Images Within hours of being inaugurated on January 20, President Donald Trump issued an order that, while gaining little attention compared with many of his executive actions thus far, would ultimately affect the bank accounts of hundreds of thousands of Americans. Trump moved to  immediately suspend a fee reduction for Federal Housing Administration loans that the Obama administration authorized on January 9. Essentially, the suspension of FHA rate cuts stopped a reduction in mortgage insurance premiums for FHA-backed loans, although the cuts hadn't yet gone into effect, said Ralph McLaughlin, chief economist for Trulia . The fee was supposed to be  cut by 0.25 percentage points of the total amount borrowed. To put that into perspective, had the Obama administration's order gone through, Americans with $200,000 mortgages would have saved about $500 over the course of a year, while those with $400,000 mortgages would save about $1,000. Reactions were, of course, mixed. Some critics said Trump's order  would take money out of Americans' pockets, especially low-income homeowners. Others, citing the more than $1 trillion in mortgage loans insured by the FHA, said the move would protect taxpayers in the event of another housing crash, NPR reports . But what does it mean for  you ? Business Insider spoke with three experts to cut the jargon and discern how this policy — and Trump's administration as a whole — would affect homebuyers this year. Here are five things to know. The first thing to know is that the fee cuts Trump eliminated hadn't been enacted yet, so Trump's order didn't affect those who already held mortgages. "It's not going to make it more expensive because the cut was never put into effect, so nobody actually got to pay lower FHA fees," Greg McBride, chief financial analyst at Bankrate.com , told Business Insider. "I think what's important here is that nothing actually changed, and therefore nothing changed back. The original cut in FHA fees was announced, but not implemented." While much remains the same for current homeowners, eliminating the rate cut could keep potential buyers who were hoping to capitalize on it from being able to afford a home.  "The National Association of Realtors believes that this is an important policy measure to make sure that housing continues to be accessible," Danielle Hale, managing director of housing research at the NAR, said of the fee cut. "According to our estimates, roughly 750,000 to 850,000 homebuyers will face higher costs without that cut going into place, and if we don't get the cut, we expect 30,000 to 40,000 new homebuyers will be left on the sidelines for 2017." In other words, though the order wouldn't derail current mortgage holders from making their existing payments, it could potentially deter those on the fence about buying a home. "The estimates are roughly $400 to $450 in annual savings, which may seem small, but for some people that makes a difference between being able to comfortably buy a home and maybe deciding to rent for a couple more years," Hale said, referring to the predicted annual savings for families with a mortgage between $160,000 and $180,000. Trulia predicts that Americans' political viewpoints will affect their feelings about purchasing homes as the current political climate settles in. McLaughlin said: "In a recent survey we conducted at Trulia, we found that President Trump's surprise victory gave Republicans a renewed sense of optimism toward the housing market, while Democrats turned pessimistic toward housing in 2017. "That said, we think that American homebuyers in economically healthy blue states will likely be rattled and more hesitant about the future [of] the US economy, which will curb their interest in making large investments. In economically stagnant red states, on the other hand, homebuyers will likely feel a surge of confidence that could bolster demand." Mortgage rates will fluctuate throughout the year. Shutterstock McLaughlin, McBride, and Hale all predict that mortgage rates will increase in 2017. "Inflation is a little bit higher, the Federal Reserve will continue boosting short-term interest rates, and the expectation is that the economy will benefit from government stimulus and that growth will pick up," McBride said. "All of those would argue for mortgage rates being higher a year from now than they are today." However, it's important to note that although mortgage rates would likely be higher overall in a year, they will remain volatile throughout because of the uncertainty of what's to come, particularly concerning Trump's plans for financial regulation and tax reform. " President Trump still hasn't made clear what his plans are for financial regulation, but as those decisions come out, they may push rates out further as investors either flock to or away from US bonds," McLaughlin said. "We've already seen a slight increase in mortgage rates since Trump took office, partially driven by an increase in bond yields for mortgage-backed securities." As long as the US doesn't hit another recession, home prices are expected to go up. "Primarily because the Trump administration has hinted at Dodd-Frank reform , which could eventually loosen credit and make it easier for homebuyers to borrow, while also implementing tax reforms that could put more money in the pockets of homebuyers," McLaughlin says. "These factors combined may cause demand for housing to rise, driving prices up." Hale notes that though prices will continue to rise, the increase will likely plateau. While there's been an influx of new potential home buyers in the last few years, construction hasn't kept up with demand, causing prices to spike. But the NAR predicts new building on the horizon.  "We've had years of limited inventory and we expect that builders will respond to the rising home prices that we've seen by increasing building in the years ahead," she says. "That should help prices slow down, but they will continue to rise: Our forecast for 2017 has them up 3.9%, and 3.2% for 2018, so slower than they've grown recently, but continuing to rise." Although politics and economics go hand-in-hand at times, Trump is not the only factor influencing the housing market. Inflation, buyer demand, Federal Reserve rates, and numerous other factors are at play when mortgage rates and housing prices rise and fall. Within hours of being inaugurated on January... How this astronaut overcame failure and rejection to land his dream job More Idea Factory  » We just created the best Google Chrome extension on the market for latest news headlines More BI Innovations  » Get the best of Business Insider delivered to your inbox every day. Available on iOS or Android