Youths kiss as they enjoy a sunny summer afternoon on the Pont des Arts with its fence covered with padlocks clipped by lovers over the River Seine in Paris, August 6, 2013. REUTERS/Christian Hartmann Paris is aggressively lobbying British-based banks, financial services institutions, and investors to move to the French capital, as Brexit forces many to look elsewhere for a European headquarters. Interestingly, lobbyists are not just talking up Paris' business environment but also its culture, cooking, healthcare — even alluding to the city's fame as a great spot for a romantic getaway. "When was the last time you took your partner off for a weekend in Frankfurt?" Valerie Pecresse, president of the Paris region, told a press conference in London on Monday. As well as alluding to Paris' reputation as the city of love, it was a sly dig at the German city seen as Paris' nearest rival for post-Brexit job relocation. Pecresse said: "French executives don't just work 35 hours a week, obviously... There is quality of life. If you want to live somewhere, you look at [all facets] of quality of life. Of cooking, of healthcare, of children's care. In this aspect, I think Paris can rate first in continental Europe." "We are preparing ourselves to welcome expatriates and their families. The region has opened two new international high schools," Pecresse said, adding that there are plans to open a new international school in Paris' business centre, La Defense. She noted that there are plans to invest "€30 billion in new subway lines before 2030." Pecresse's comments came as representatives from Paris Europlace — the lobbying group representing the city's financial institutions — hosted more than 80 business leaders at a roundtable discussion in London's Shard on Monday, followed by a press conference. Paris Europlace has frequently travelled to London in recent months, meeting bankers and executives across the city to push Paris' cause. At Monday's conference, a panel of delegates from Paris — including the City's vice-mayor Jean-Louis Missika, Pecresse, and Gerard Mestrallet, the chairman of Paris Europlace — addressed the future of the City of London and put their case forward for Paris. Mestrallet said: "We are not here to force financial institutions to leave London. That would be their decision. But if they decide to move some of their activities after Brexit, our message is 'come to Paris'." Valérie Pécresse, president of the Paris region. Reuters Pecresse said: "We are the only global economic city in continental Europe. The only city that can compare to Paris is London." She estimated that roughly 10,000 jobs in the financial sector could move from London to the French capital. However, the Sunday Telegraph reported last weekend that the city's "pitch has failed to impress London’s elite, who associate France more with high taxes and tough employment laws." The lobbyists and politicians were keen to shift these perceptions at Monday's press conference. They stressed that the country actually has a favourable regime for expats, who pay less tax in France than they would in the UK. Paris Europlace's CEO Arnaud de Bresson cited the example of one senior JP Morgan banker in Paris. De Bresson claims that the financier — who he didn't name — pays 28% income tax in the French capital, compared to the 43% he would pay if he lived in London. This is down to recently introduced non-dom rules. France's capital is also pushing accelerating reforms in the country's labour markets, and trying to strike down the idea that French workers will not work for more than 35 hours a week. "We are working on our labour rules, knowing that we need to have much more flexibility. The Macron law has been the first step ... and we are trying to ensure that these reforms are furthered," de Bresson said in October. In December, de Bresson told Business Insider that banks are definitively planning to move jobs out of London. Since that meeting, Theresa May has delivered her now famous speech signalling that Britain will leave the European Single Market, further accelerating the process. The chief executives of JP Morgan, HSBC, UBS all said they'll likely move jobs out of London, while there were also reports of Goldman Sachs preparing to shift staff out of the UK's capital. Pecresse said on Monday: "The move will come slowly, so we just don’t know yet [how many will come]." The City of London remains confident it will retain its place as Europe's financial centre. In an emailed statement on Monday evening, Mark Boleat, the policy chairman of the City of London Corporation said: "As we would expect, cities like Paris are competing for trade and the associated jobs that come with these businesses. "However I am confident that the depth of talent here, our attractiveness as a place to work and live, and assets like English rule of law, language and our regulatory landscape will mean we remain the number one global financial centre." Paris is aggressively lobbying British-based... How this astronaut overcame failure and rejection to land his dream job More Idea Factory  » We just created the best Google Chrome extension on the market for latest news headlines More BI Innovations  » Get the best of Business Insider delivered to your inbox every day. Available on iOS or Android