Adidas is one of many David Beckham's many endorsement partners. Adidas / YouTube David Beckham is at the eye of a media storm after his private emails were leaked to European press over the weekend. The intimate messages show his anger at not being knighted by the Queen and raise questions about his commitment to UNICEF, the charity for which he is an ambassador. The leak, which his team thinks was an illegal hack , appears to have taken some shine off the wholesome Beckham image. But they also serve as a reminder of the power of his brand and his achievements. Beckham is arguably even more famous now than he was at his football peak. He's married to 41-year-old fashion designer and former Spice Girl Victoria Beckham , has been the face of some of the most iconic brand and sport endorsements, has four multitalented children — Brooklyn, Romeo, Cruz, and Harper — and countless famous friends. His Instagram , which he only launched in 2015, has 32.7 million followers. From the football and family to the fortune and fashion, scroll down to see the incredible life of David Beckham. He is the only footballer to win league titles in Britain, Spain, the US, and France. Beckham recently told the BBC it was love at first sight.            Source: Business Insider   Beckham Brand Holdings Ltd., the firm to which they channel their combined income, made a total of £47.2 million over the course of the year, which includes revenue from Victoria Beckham's fashion business and Beckham's global image rights. The couple paid £7.9 million in tax — just under £22,000 a day — on the profits, leaving them with £39.5 million.     "I think more than anything… one of the most important things in my life at the moment is my charity work," he said . "It’s not just about the amount of money that we raise, it’s meeting these children, it’s knowing that we are changing children’s lives." He added that his work is "not for vanity." He also spoke about his roots in football, as well as his love for his family and Victoria.   Among other allegations, the emails reportedly showed  that Beckham billed the charity for a £6,685 business class flight he never even boarded.             Source: BBC David Beckham is at the eye of a media storm... How this astronaut overcame failure and rejection to land his dream job More Idea Factory  » We just created the best Google Chrome extension on the market for latest news headlines More BI Innovations  » Get the best of Business Insider delivered to your inbox every day. Available on iOS or Android