Richard Branson and Barack Obama vacationing in the British Virgin Islands. Screenshot/ Virgin Former President Barack Obama has clearly been enjoying his vacation at Richard Branson's private estate in the British Virgin Islands. Branson and Obama, who grew up surfing and swimming on Hawaii's beaches, challenged each other to a kitesurfing competition, according to a blog post from Branson . Obama would learn how to kitesurf, while Branson would learn how to ride a foilboard — an advanced type of hydroplaning surfboard. The two would then see who could surf the longest on their respective watercraft. And though Branson has long been known for his adventurous exploits, the former president was no slouch in the water. He bested Branson by traveling over 100 meters on the kiteboard to Branson's 50 meters on the foilboard. "Being the former president of America, there was lots of security around, but Barack was able to really relax and get into it," Branson wrote. For Obama, this excursion was a long time coming. Obama told Branson that just before he became president, he went surfing on a dangerous break in Hawaii. According to Branson, when Obama got back to the beach, his security team told him, "This will be the last time you surf for eight years." var playerParam = { 'pcode': 'BhdmY6l9g002rBhQ6aEBZiheacDu', 'playerBrandingId': '6e12e8b3387a44daacfb73afba25a76e', 'skin': { 'config': '//player.ooyala.com/static/v4/stable/4.4.11/skin-plugin/skin.json' }

};

OO.ready(function() { window.pp = OO.Player.create('ooyala-post-container', 'd0Z2NpOTE65YDAn2NwsLQXfJ8HphtuTx', playerParam);

});   Screenshot/ Virgin Screenshot/ Virgin Former President Barack Obama has clearly been... How this astronaut overcame failure and rejection to land his dream job More Idea Factory  » We just created the best Google Chrome extension on the market for latest news headlines More BI Innovations  » Get the best of Business Insider delivered to your inbox every day. Available on iOS or Android