Are you more of a Corinne or a Chad? You re big bad Chad! You scare all the other guys in the house, chomp on raw potatoes at will, and basically don t give a single fuck. You ve even told off Chris Harrison, which is unheard of in Bachelor Nation. Many will say they hate you, but what they really know deep down inside is that they respect you. And that, my friend, is worth more than any dating contest you could ever win. You re America s latest and greatest reality TV villian! You re not here to make friends, you sleep through rose ceremonies, and you have no problems interrupting Nick s one-on-one time with anybody else. Oh, and you re not afraid to ~go there~ with whipped cream and your body on national TV. You win! You re Courtney, unfortunate winner of Ben Flajnik s season. You re not here to make friends, so much so that you wrote a damn book about it. And you made a lot of enemies when you took Bachelor Ben Flajnik skinny dipping in the ocean, but who cares? You know what you re here for! You re what they call Bachelor gold : you can cry on command, you re self-defensive, and you have a dead husband that you bring up often. And most of all, you know what you did ! You re definitely not here to make friends — except for Clint, that is. You know that the fastest way to maximum Bachelor airtime is to have a fake romance with one of the other dudes vying for love in the house. And you d be right! First of all, you have one of the best names in reality television history. You re also potentially in the running for Most Seen On Reality TV. You ve been there and done that — as in, you ve been on The Bachelor, Bachelor Pad, and Bachelor In Paradise . You can intimidate others very easily and know exactly what you want in life. Basically, you re an expert at this reality TV thing and you might as well keep on going! Okay, so, you re Olivia and while you re considered by many to be a Bachelor villian you re mostly just misunderstood. You spoke your mind and didn t care what anybody thought — that is, until you started getting lots of online hate when the episodes aired! Still, you refused to shut your (some might say large) mouth and went on with your bad self. And for that, we applaud you. You re Juan Pablo, the only person who s managed to be both the one daters are vying after AND to be a Bachelor villian — congrats! You also started out as a contestant so you re ~of the people.~ Kind of. You managed to alienate almost all of your co-daters, and when it came time to date on your own you pretty much bungled it all up (with apologies to Nikki, the season s winner). Not even a trip to Marriage Bootcamp could help you dig yourself out of the hole that is public opinion, and you, sir, have since faded into obscurity. Bye! Check out more articles on BuzzFeed.com! You are signed in as . Tagged: the bachelor villians , personalityquiz , the bachelor , the bachelorette , villain , villians , quiz Hey! This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone. Share this on Facebook (Connected as [Disconnect] ) by Thomas Golianopoulos Survey says 2017 BuzzFeed, Inc Please select the newsletters you'd like to receive. Your email has been sent! Thanks for sharing! You should sign up for our Daily newsletter! Oops! We had a problem sending your message. Please try again later. Great! You'll get your first email soon. Drag to highlight one or more parts of the screen. We got your feedback, and we'll follow up with you at Sadly, an error occured while sending your feedback. Please contact bugs@buzzfeed.com to let us know.