Thank Gucci the weather is mild in Southern California. View this image We hope a closer look at the evidence will satisfy the question, Does Kylie Jenner know how to wear coats? View this image Overwhelmed by the intricate process of wearing a coat, Kylie Jenner does her best impression of a coatrack, hoping it will trick onlookers. View this image Here Kylie Jenner manages to get her arms into the sleeves a huge improvement still, the coat hangs off of her like a drugged-up python. View this image Kylie Jenner attempts to distract onlookers from her coat inadequacies by gesturing to her hair. It doesn t work. View this image In her extreme concentration to put on a coat, Kylie Jenner forgets one crucial step: pants. View this image Kylie Jenner s coat slips off her arms like a greased-up shower curtain. The cries of children can be heard in the wind. View this image Kylie Jenner attempts a look that can only be described as Construction Tarp Flapping Against the Side of a Building. View on Instagram Kylie Jenner self-consciously tugs at a coat that looks like it ended up on her body by complete accident. The unwieldy coat makes onlookers nervous. View this image Kylie Jenner, embarrassed by her inability to keep a coat on both shoulders, hides her face behind her cell phone. Her shame is enormous. View this image Kylie Jenner succeeds in keeping a coat halfway on. She stands very still as not to disturb it, the way one might act around a baby bird. View this image In a huge set back, Kylie Jenner holds a coat adjacent to her body. And in the distance, sirens. View this image Kylie Jenner uses the sink to steady herself against the unfamiliar weight of a coat on her body. She takes a picture to commemorate the moment in her personal scrapbook. View this image Kylie Jenner takes a second to contemplate how many hours of practice have gone into getting her coat fully on. She thanks her coa(t)ch, off camera, for the many years of training. View this image She can do it She can wear a coat Both shoulders are shod, her arms are armored. Kylie Jenner is wearing. A. Coat. And the crowd goes wild. Check out more articles on BuzzFeed.com! You are signed in as . Tagged: kylie jenner , a serious investigation into wearing coats , can i have some of your money kylie jenner , coats , coats are hard , coats are just prisons for your arms , coats are like jenga but on your body , does anyone actually know how to wear a coat tho , fuck coats honestly , just wear a cape , thats why you live in la you dont even need a coat , what are coats , you cant blame her the sleeves are like tunnels to nowhere Hey! This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone. Share this on Facebook (Connected as [Disconnect] ) by Tyler Kingkade Survey says 2017 BuzzFeed, Inc Please select the newsletters you'd like to receive. Your email has been sent! Thanks for sharing! You should sign up for our Daily newsletter! Oops! We had a problem sending your message. Please try again later. Great! You'll get your first email soon. Drag to highlight one or more parts of the screen. We got your feedback, and we'll follow up with you at Sadly, an error occured while sending your feedback. Please contact bugs@buzzfeed.com to let us know.