“There may be times when we are powerless to prevent injustice, but there must never be a time when we fail to protest.” —Elie Wiesel View this image College students at a sit-in in Little Rock, Arkansas, in 1962. View this image Volunteer civil rights activists undergo tolerance training in preparation for sit-in demonstrations in Petersburg, Virginia, in May 1960. Here, NAACP student advisers David Gunter (left) and Leroy Hill (right) blow smoke into the face of Virginius Thornton. View this image A 17-year-old civil rights demonstrator, defying an anti-parade ordinance of Birmingham, Alabama, is attacked by a police dog on May 3, 1963. On the afternoon of May 4, 1963, during a meeting at the White House with members of a political group, President Kennedy discussed this photo, which had appeared on the front page of that day s New York Times . View this image Children are attacked by dogs and water cannons during a protest against segregation organized by Martin Luther King Jr. and Fred Shuttlesworth in May 1963 in Birmingham, Alabama. View this image Demonstrators march in front of an Indianapolis hotel where Alabama Gov. George Wallace is staying, as they are picketed by white youths carrying Confederate flags, on April 14, 1964. View this image A massive crowd is assembled on the National Mall in front of the Reflecting Pool and between the Lincoln and Washington monuments during the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom on Aug. 28, 1963. It was at this rally that Martin Luther King Jr. delivered his I Have a Dream speech. View this image Demonstrators march and sing together during the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom on Aug. 28, 1963. View this image Young women clap and sing along to a freedom song between speeches at the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom on Aug. 28, 1963. View this image Leaders of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom link arms on Aug. 28, 1963. Among those pictured, front row from left: John Lewis, Mathew Ahmann, Floyd B. McKissick, Martin Luther King Jr., Eugene Carson Blake, Cleveland Robinson, and Rabbi Joachim Prinz. View this image Participants cool their feet in the Lincoln Memorial Reflecting Pool during the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom. View this image Police drag demonstrators to an elevator in clearing the Justice Department building in Washington, DC, on March 9, 1965. Some 170 young people were removed from three corridors near the office of Attorney General Nicholas Katzenbach. View this image Civil rights marchers carry an American flag upside down as they participate in the 50-mile Selma to Montgomery march on March 21, 1965. View this image Participants walk in the Cicero march, a civil rights demonstration protesting racist housing policies in Cicero, Illinois, in 1966. View this image A handcuffed anti Vietnam War demonstrator is hauled away from the front of the Century Plaza Hotel in Los Angeles on June 23, 1967. A rock-throwing melee erupted as several thousand people protesting US involvement in the Vietnam War paraded in front of the hotel, where President Lyndon Johnson was giving a speech at a $500-a-plate dinner. View this image Wounded San Francisco State University demonstrators are restrained as they are taken away during the student strike protests against the Vietnam War in San Francisco on Dec. 3, 1968. View this image Peace demonstrators sit during a protest of the Vietnam War as military police in riot gear stand by on Jan. 1, 1967. View this image Robert F. Kennedy sits next to Cesar Chavez (visibly weak after a prolonged hunger strike) during a rally in support of the United Farm Workers union on March 1, 1968. View this image Young men hold their burning draft cards aloft at an anti Vietnam War demonstration in front of the Pentagon in Washington, DC, on Oct. 21, 1967. View this image An anti Vietnam War march on Jan. 27, 1968. View this image US National Guard troops block off a street in Memphis as civil rights marchers pass on March 29, 1968. View this image Heavily armed students of Cornell University leave a school building in Ithaca, New York, on April 20, 1969. The students had barricaded themselves in the building demanding a degree-granting African-American studies program. After a 36-hour sit-in, university administrators offered to drop some charges against the students and accelerate the opening of an African-American studies center. View this image A young woman offers a rose to uniformed military police officers outside the Democratic National Convention in Chicago on Aug. 28, 1968. View this image A young protester faces down armed police officers at an anti Vietnam War demonstration outside the 1968 Democratic National Convention in Chicago. View this image Demonstrators swarm a statue in Grant Park during the 1968 Democratic National Convention. View this image A group of women march in support of the Black Panther Party of New Haven, Connecticut, in November 1969. View this image Marchers at a feminist parade salute outside the Old Cambridge Baptist Church in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in 1969. View this image A demonstrator protests at the presidential inauguration of Richard Nixon in Washington, DC, on Jan. 20, 1969. Check out more articles on BuzzFeed.com! You are signed in as . Tagged: women's march , 1960s , civil rights , history , mlk , photography , rewind , jpg Hey! This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone. Share this on Facebook (Connected as [Disconnect] ) by Thomas Golianopoulos 2017 BuzzFeed, Inc Please select the newsletters you'd like to receive. Your email has been sent! Thanks for sharing! You should sign up for our Daily newsletter! Oops! We had a problem sending your message. Please try again later. Great! You'll get your first email soon. Drag to highlight one or more parts of the screen. We got your feedback, and we'll follow up with you at Sadly, an error occured while sending your feedback. Please contact bugs@buzzfeed.com to let us know.