Warning: If you re a Jerry, this post will be too squanchy for you. View this image View this image In the dark world of Roiland , Mharti has to perform oral sex at Doc s slightest provocation. View this image One of the most innovative sitcoms in television history. The series focuses on a group of misfit characters who, for various reasons, end up studying together in the same college. The show was canceled and renewed over and over until Yahoo bought the rights to the show for its final season. View this image The most notable one was Remedial Chaos Theory, in which a perfectly normal situation, like a group of friends waiting for a delivery pizza to arrive, becomes a carousel of opportunities, from the darkest to the most irrational ones. All this with Roxanne by The Police playing in the background. View this image It s the show that Unity gives to Rick. 3 View this image That s not the only similarity. Rick and Morty also makes movie and pop culture references similar to the style of Groening. From The Purge and Total Recall to the plot of Bedazzled (but much more entertaining). View this image View this image That Slurm machine isn t there for nothing. View this image View this image View this image They were done by Justin Roiland, who also had the task of doing the voices of Rick and Morty at the same time. View this image View this image It s called Pocket Mortys and is also available for free in the App Store. View this image A little gem from this franchise View this image (And sometimes beer.) Watch all of Rick s burps in this amazing video . View this image View this image It s impossible to read them without hearing their voices. View this image You can see this various times, like when Rick throws the memory parasites in the trash, or for example, the end of the first season. The house is transported to another dimension, which causes a crack in the ground. You can see this crack in the episodes in the second season. View this image This post was translated from Spanish . Check out more articles on BuzzFeed.com! You are signed in as . Tagged: rick and morty , back to the future , community , cool facts , futurama , hio , mexico , spanish , the simpsons Hey! This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone. Share this on Facebook (Connected as [Disconnect] ) by Thomas Golianopoulos 2017 BuzzFeed, Inc Please select the newsletters you'd like to receive. Your email has been sent! Thanks for sharing! You should sign up for our Daily newsletter! Oops! We had a problem sending your message. Please try again later. Great! You'll get your first email soon. Drag to highlight one or more parts of the screen. We got your feedback, and we'll follow up with you at Sadly, an error occured while sending your feedback. Please contact bugs@buzzfeed.com to let us know.