By Bianca London for MailOnline and Rebecca English Royal Correspondent For The Daily Mail Published: 07:17 EST, 6 February 2017 | Updated: 15:48 EST, 6 February 2017 e-mail var twitterVia = 'Femail'; DM.later('bundle', function(){ DM.has('shareLinkTop', 'shareLinks', { 'id': '4195888', 'title': 'Meghan Markle makes a bold declaration of her love', 'url': 'http://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article-4195888/Meghan-Markle-makes-bold-declaration-love.html', 'eTwitterStatus': ' http://dailym.ai/2lfoW6F via @' + twitterVia, 'articleChannelFollowButton': 'Femail', 'isChannel': false, 'hideEmail': true, 'placement': 'top', 'anchor': 'tl'}); }); 1.9k shares 2.1k View comments DM.later('bundle', function(){ DMS.Article.init('top'); }); Their romance is heating up by the minute and Meghan Markle made a bold declaration of her love for Prince Harry by wearing a ring embossed with the initial 'H' on Monday. The Suits actress, who has 'virtually moved into' Prince Harry's Kensington Palace cottage, stepped out to shop for flowers in London and the gold jewellery on her finger was impossible to miss. The Canadian actress, who has previously worn an 'H' necklace and love bracelets identical to those worn by her boyfriend, looked casually chic in Hunter wellies, a green Barbour jacket, jeans and a blue beanie hat.  It is not the first time Meghan has revealed Harry's commitment to her through accessories. The pair regularly wear matching beaded bracelets and Meghan has previously worn a personalised gold necklace that appeared to be subtly decorated with the letters M and H.  Meghan Markle, 35, made a bold declaration of her love for Prince Harry wearing a ring with his initial on as she shopped for flowers on Monday in Kensington  The loved-up actress wore the ring as she shopped for flowers; it's not the first time she's been seen wearing jewellery with his initials on  Suits actress Meghan, who is said to have practically moved into Harry's Kensington Palace cottage, looked chic in Hunter wellies and a Barbour coat for the occasion  Barbour Beadnell Waxed Cotton Jacket Buy it here from Nordstrom! Buy now Meghan Markle braved the chilly London weather with her trusty, waxed cotton Barbour jacket. The English heritage brand is an absolute classic-- known for their quality products and rain gear. Though she looks the part of a country manor lady with her Hunter boots and navy hat-- long gone are the days when this particular piece of British design was reserved for country gents who are at home on the hunt. The Barbour has been adopted by the cool crowd. Think Alexa Chung, and Olivia Palermo. Styled over skinny jeans with Chelsea boots, you ll stay dry and warm this winter but still look stylish. So why not take inspiration from Meghan and invest in an iconic coat? It will literally never go out of fashion and will last you a lifetime-- so it s money well spent. Click to buy her utilitarian piece from Nordstrom. But if you re not ready to make the investment, then browse our edit below for more affordable styles. BCBGeneration Hooded Anorak at Macy s Buy now Eddie Bauer Women s Westbridge Parka Buy now River Island Khaki green hooded parka coat Buy now WOOLRICH JOHN RICH BROS. Arctic long fur-trimmed cotton-blend canvas parka at MatchesFashion.com Buy now The stylish actress carried a cream Goyard bag - which can cost up to £800.  Her shopping trip came after she was spotted out with Prince Harry over the weekend. Hand in hand, Prince Harry and his actress girlfriend Meghan Markle walked through the streets of London as rumours of an impending engagement continue to grow. The prince was pictured with the American-born divorcee, who has been spending a lot of time with him at Kensington Palace since the beginning of the year, after a romantic dinner at trendy private members' club Soho House on Wednesday. Harry, 32, was said by onlookers to be relaxed about being photographed with his new love, which is being seen by royal watchers as a sign of how seriously he is taking the relationship. Her shopping trip came after she was spotted out with Prince Harry over the weekend One source told the Mail that she may well move to London permanently by the end of the year, once her filming commitments have finished, and the creators of the legal drama she stars in are already looking at ways to write her out Another indication is that Miss Markle, 35, who is based in Canada where she films the hit television show Suits, has found a sitter for her dogs, Guy and Bogart, who live with her in Toronto. According to sources, she wants to spend as much time as she can in London with the Queen's grandson before she has to return for filming commitments in March. Once a prolific social media user, Miss Markle has become much more circumspect about the information she puts out, not least because Harry is wary of such public forums. She failed to highlight a charity trip to India last month – although some handpicked media were in attendance, it is believed – and has not posted any photographs on Instagram since December 11. One source told the Mail that she may well move to London permanently by the end of the year, once her filming commitments have finished, and the creators of the legal drama she stars in are already looking at ways to write her out. They say Harry has fallen 'heads over heels' for the actress and is desperately keen for the relationship to work. The source says Harry has fallen 'heads over heels' for the actress and is desperately keen for the relationship to work Meghan, who is thought to be living with the Prince in his cottage, was shopping for colourful flowers near the Palace  The actress, who dressed down for the occasion, opted for some purple and green flowers from the florist on Monday One source said: 'She is beautiful, accomplished, whip-smart and has all the humanitarian credentials that Harry so admires' Harry is due to spend several weeks in Toronto later this year when the Invictus Games, his Paralympic-style event for injured servicemen and women, is held there. But after that, the source suggests, Miss Markle could become a permanent fixture in London The source added: 'And although Meghan has her roots in the US and Canada, she is a keen traveller with a lot of friends in London, so moving over wouldn't be too seismic' He has long wanted to settle down and have children, while Miss Markle is said to be equally keen on starting a family. Both are said to have been enjoying living together like any 'normal' couple at Nottingham Cottage, Harry's two-bedroom residence in the grounds of Kensington Palace. One source said: 'She is beautiful, accomplished, whip-smart and has all the humanitarian credentials that Harry so admires. 'And although Meghan has her roots in the US and Canada, she is a keen traveller with a lot of friends in London, so moving over wouldn't be too seismic. 'The only issue would be getting [her dogs] Guy and Bogart settled permanently in the UK as the three of them come as a package.' Meghan Markle ensured there was no doubt over the status of her relationship with Prince Harry by wearing their first initials side-by-side on her chest in December. The 35-year-old actress was pictured shopping in Toronto, Canada, wearing a personalised gold necklace that appeared to be subtly decorated with the letters M and H. The 35-year-old actress was pictured shopping in Toronto, Canada, in December, wearing a personalised gold necklace that appeared to be subtly decorated with the letters M and H The 14 karat gold necklace is by Los Angeles-based designer Maya Brenner whose jewelry has been worn by celebrities including Kendall Jenner, Mila Kunis and Ashley Graham. A spokeswoman for the jewelry company confirmed that Meghan wore the 'asymmetrical letter and number necklace' which comes in white, yellow and rose gold. It costs $240 with one letter, but the company charges an extra $60 for each additional letter. It is not the first time that Meghan has used jewellery to show her feelings for the prince. The couple regularly wear matching beaded bracelets .   PEOPLE has reported: 'Harry reportedly picked up the bracelets during one of his trips to Africa - and the gift has rarely left the actress’s wrist.' Prince Harry spends a lot of time in Africa, where he carries out charity work with his Sentebale organisation. He established the charity, which means forget me not, in the African nation with its Prince Seeiso, in memory of their mothers. The 31-year-old royal built the Mamohato Children’s Centre to support vulnerable children through healthcare and education.  In the past, when he was dating South African socialite Chelsea Davy, it was reported that Prince Harry gifted her jewellery as a token of his affections.  It is not the first time that Meghan has used jewellery to show her feelings for the prince. The couple regularly wear matching beaded bracelets  PEOPLE has reported: 'Harry reportedly picked up the bracelets during one of his trips to Africa - and the gift has rarely left the actress’s wrist' With the Queen due back from Norfolk next week, there is much speculation that the prince will take the opportunity to introduce his girlfriend to his grandmother, a sure sign that marriage is on the cards. Although these sorts of introductions normally take years to achieve, the Queen has a soft spot for her grandson and wants to see him happy. Harry is due to spend several weeks in Toronto later this year when the Invictus Games, his Paralympic-style event for injured servicemen and women, is held there. But after that, the source suggests, Miss Markle could become a permanent fixture in London. The couple met last July after being introduced by Soho House consultant Markus Anderson, a mutual friend. Since then barely a few weeks have gone by without them criss-crossing the globe to spend time together. Last month they enjoyed their first holiday together, visiting the Norwegian fjords.  It seems that Meghan is getting into the British swing of things, opting for Hunter wellies and a navy jacket  Meghan plumped for classic British attire as she shopped for flowers at the local florist near Prince Harry's cottage It comes as friends of Harry and his actress girlfriend Miss Markle have said the pair are 'taking things to the next level and are practically living together' The royal residence - showing the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge's apartment in the background and Nottingham Cottage, were Prince Harry resides According to a friend Miss Markle 'has always enjoyed spending time in London' but she is now 'really putting down roots' He has long wanted to settle down and have children, while Miss Markle is said to be equally keen on starting a family. Both are said to have been enjoying living together like any 'normal' couple at Nottingham Cottage, Harry's two-bedroom residence in the grounds of Kensington Palace. One source said: 'She is beautiful, accomplished, whip-smart and has all the humanitarian credentials that Harry so admires. 'And although Meghan has her roots in the US and Canada, she is a keen traveller with a lot of friends in London, so moving over wouldn't be too seismic. Hardly camera shy! Their dinner date at media haunt  By Daily Mail Reporter Soho House is perhaps an unlikely choice for a couple who might wish to remain discreet. Membership of the trendy private club is limited to those who work in the creative industries – film, fashion, advertising, music, art and, of course, the media. However the swanky haunt in Dean Street holds memories for Harry and Meghan, because it was where they first met. The club has 18 branches around the world, including Berlin, Istanbul and Miss Markle’s adopted home town of Toronto. The couple were this week spotted hand-in-hand after enjoying a dinner date at Soho House, the private members' club in West London where they met last year (pictured) The Dean Street branch, which is set over four floors of a Grade II-listed Georgian townhouse, has a courtyard, club bar, house kitchen, sitting room, top floor and a basement cinema and bar. Membership that permits entry to all the club’s locations can cost in excess of £1,500 a year and prospective joiners must be nominated by two existing Soho House members. Prince Harry and Miss Markle recently enjoyed minibreaks at Soho Farmhouse in the Cotswolds, as well as dinners and soirees at the Dean Street branch. The original Soho House, on Greek Street, was founded in 1995 by Nick Jones, who is married to broadcaster Kirsty Young. It is currently closed for refurbishment.  Share what you think The comments below have not been moderated. The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline. By posting your comment you agree to our house rules . Your comment will be credited to your MailOnline persona Your comment will be credited to your MailOnline persona Copy link to paste in your message Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday Metro Media Group