By Marc Jackson for MailOnline Published: 04:32 EST, 7 February 2017 | Updated: 10:44 EST, 7 February 2017 e-mail var twitterVia = 'DailyMailCeleb'; DM.later('bundle', function(){ DM.has('shareLinkTop', 'shareLinks', { 'id': '4198936', 'title': 'Radio 4\'s Steve Hewlett told he has \'just weeks to live\'', 'url': 'http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-4198936/Radio-4-s-Steve-Hewlett-told-just-weeks-live.html', 'eTwitterStatus': ' http://dailym.ai/2lkjHCz via @' + twitterVia, 'articleChannelFollowButton': 'DailyMailCeleb', 'isChannel': false, 'hideEmail': true, 'placement': 'top', 'anchor': 'tl'}); }); 38 shares 69 View comments DM.later('bundle', function(){ DMS.Article.init('top'); }); Radio 4 presenter Steve Hewlett has been told he has just 'weeks to live' as he battles cancer. The broadcaster, 58, was advised by his consultant that they would have to halt treatment this week, a year after he was diagnosed with an aggressive form of the disease, as it has spread to his liver. Surrounded by his partner Rachel and his three children at the time of the devastating news, he decided to get married in his hospital bedroom. Scroll down for video  Emotional: Radio 4 presenter Steve Hewlett has married his partner Rachel in hospital after being told he has just 'weeks to live' as he battles cancer Speaking in good humour in an emotional Radio 4 interview recorded at the Royal Marsden hospital in London, he said: 'The consultant came in and said I'm sorry about this but your liver is now playing up, so much so that I can't agree to treat you with anything. 'In terms of timescale, she thought long and hard about it... and eventually she said weeks, possibly months. 'It took a while to register... it didn't click... she was saying I could pop off at any time.  Love: Surrounded by his partner Rachel and his three children at the time of the devastating news, he decided to get married in his hospital bedroom 'Carol, my ex partner, and Rachel, my new partner, are there. So my kids are there, the person who is going to be my wife is there, the person who's been closest thing I've had to a wife is there.  'And the consultant says, "If you want to do this marriage thing I think you should do it now.' Hewlett goes on to marvel at how the hospital pulled together a ceremony out of thin air - and branding his experience and treatment as 'Britain at its best'. Tragic: The broadcaster, 58, was told by his consultant that they would have to halt treatment this week as it has spread to his liver. He decided to marry his partner Rachel in his hospital room with an hour of the news Focusing on the postive: The father-of-three is pictured in 2015 before his diagnosis celebrating his son's Bertie's 18th birthday Rallying around: The journalist - who has worked in print and was editor of Panorama - says his experience of the healthcare system has been 'Britain at its best' He continued: 'The whole thing was arranged within an hour. They got a Chelsea registrar, they hauled a Chelsea vicar out of a dinner with somebody. Nurses got a cake, some flowers, some bottles of prosecco from somewhere. 'And then this ceremony begins. It was like something from (farcical BBC sitcom) All Gas and Gaiters and Vicar of Dibley. 'The idea that we have no one in this country that cares or go the extra mile is nonsense. In this little room here, this was Britain at its best.'  Hewlett, best known for presenting The Media Show, was diagnosed with cancer of the oesophagus in March 2016. He underwent intense treatment, receiving chemotherapy and radiotherapy, documenting his battle on the radio and in a blog for the Guardian. Speaking about his feelings at being delivered the news, he said: 'My initial reaction, quite genuinely, was just to think "OK. My luck has finally run out." But there is something about journalism that is quite central to the person I am – a tendency to ask awkward questions.  'And I have realised over time that if I don’t understand something, it is quite possible that other people don’t either.' The journalist - who has worked in print and was editor of the BBC's Panaroma when they bagged the Princess Diana interview in 1995 - has remained positive throughout his battle, using his platform to spread awareness of the symptoms and urging sufferers to speak candidly about their own battles. The hardest part of his health fight so far, he admits, was telling his three sons, Fred, Bill and Bert, that there was no 'curative surgical option'. In an emotive piece for the Radio Times, he revealed: 'The looks in their eyes as they contemplated my mortality will stay with me forever...' He admitted that he had never thought he would be a victim of the disease, despite years of smoking. Hewlett added: 'I never imagined seriously that I’d get cancer. I don’t mean I didn’t recognise it as a possibility – after all I smoked until 20 years ago and enjoyed eating and drinking – occasionally to traditional journalistic excess – and I know that many of us will get cancer at some point in our lives.' Shock: The presenter underwent intense treatment, receiving chemotherapy and radiotherapy, documenting his battle on the radio and in a blog for the Guardian and admits he was stunned to be told he had the disease Share what you think The comments below have been moderated in advance. The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline. By posting your comment you agree to our house rules . Your comment will be credited to your MailOnline persona Your comment will be credited to your MailOnline persona Copy link to paste in your message Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday Metro Media Group