By James Tapsfield, Political Editor For Mailonline Published: 03:23 EST, 7 February 2017 | Updated: 12:25 EST, 7 February 2017 e-mail var twitterVia = 'MailOnline'; DM.later('bundle', function(){ DM.has('shareLinkTop', 'shareLinks', { 'id': '4198788', 'title': 'Defiant Bercow DISMISSES MP fury over his attack on \'racist\' Trump', 'url': 'http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-4198788/Bercow-faces-fight-job-amid-backlash-Trump-ban.html', 'eTwitterStatus': ' http://dailym.ai/2ljOvDi via @' + twitterVia, 'articleChannelFollowButton': 'MailOnline', 'isChannel': false, 'hideEmail': true, 'placement': 'top', 'anchor': 'tl'}); }); 948 shares 2.5k View comments DM.later('bundle', function(){ DMS.Article.init('top'); }); Defiant John Bercow has dismissed MP fury over his attack on 'racist' Donald Trump as his Lords counterpart suggested the Speaker should be stripped of control over Westminster Hall speeches. Mr Bercow said he was just being 'honest' by making an extraordinary intervention in which he said he would not authorise the use of the historic venue during the US president's impending state visit. The comments last night were cheered by many MPs in the chamber, who have been heavily critical of the travel ban imposed by the White House on nationals from seven mainly-Muslim countries. But Tories have broken ranks to condemn Mr Bercow for abandoning his role's traditional neutrality and wading into international politics - suggesting his position is 'untenable'. The Lords Speaker also laid into Mr Bercow this afternoon for failing to consult him before delivering the excoriating statement.  Lord Fowler - who also has to sign off on Westminster Hall speeches - said he had received an apology from his opposite number today. The peer added that it might be 'better' if neither of them had the power to veto such prestigious addresses. British Speaker John Bercow, pictured in the House of Commons today, said he had been 'honestly and honourably' discharging his duties when he attacked Donald Trump Speaker Bercow was applauded by MPs after his intervention, prompted by a point of order from Labour MP Stephen Doughty US President Donald Trump speaking to troops at MacDill Air Force Base in Tampa, Florida Former minister Sir Gerald Howarth raised the row as a point of order in the Commons this afternoon, urging Mr Bercow to 'reassure' the House that they could have 'full confidence in the impartiality of the chair'.  But Mr Bercow shot back that the decision to bar the US commander-in-chief was 'within the remit' of the Speaker. 'I was honestly and honourably seeking to discharge my responsibilities to the House,' he added.   Earlier, Tory backbencher Alec Shelbrooke said Mr Bercow's position was 'untenable' after he engaged in 'grandstanding' and 'student politics of the worst kind'. He told MailOnline that the Speaker had effectively validated human rights abuses in other countries such as China - because they had been welcomed to parliament. It has also emerged that Mr Bercow entertained dignitaries from North Korea and Vietnam at Westminster in the past. Fellow Conservative Nadhim Zahawi - another opponent of the US travel ban - said Mr Bercow should 'think about his position'. Ministerial aide David Morris insisted: 'The Speaker does not speak for me.' Former Culture Secretary John Whittingdale said the remarks had been 'regrettable'. At least one MP approached Clerks last night asking about the process for calling a vote of no confidence in the Speaker, and soundings were being taken on support. Officials were said to have been 'open mouthed' at the vehemence of Mr Bercow's comments. The use of Westminster Hall is closely guarded by three powerful keyholders. The ancient hall - the oldest part of the Parliamentary estate that dates back around 1,000 years - has played a pivotal role in UK history. It is protected by the Speakers of the Commons and Lords and the Great Lord Chamberlain, on behalf of the Queen. Currently they are John Bercow for the Commons, Lord Fowler for the Lords and David Cholmondeley, 7th Marquess of Cholmondeley for the Queen.  Speeches in the hall are rare. US President Barack Obama, South African President Nelson Mandela and Burma freedom fighter Aung San Suu Kyi are among the select few. Events cannot take place without the agreement of the key holders. He is likely to be challenged on the issue when the House sits later. The fact that MPs are willing to take the unusual step of going on the record to condemn the Speaker - who has power over whether they are called in debates - is evidence of the extent of anger against him. Cabinet minister Sajid Javid made clear this morning that Mr Bercow did not 'speak for the government'. He insisted Mr Trump would be made 'very welcome' when the state visit takes place later this year, after Theresa May extended an invitation during her visit to the White House last month. A government source told the Telegraph: 'Maybe the Speaker should think twice before making heavy political interventions like this. John Bercow can preach. 'It has no ramifications for him but it has ramifications for Britain. It's armchair politics. It's an important job he's doing, it's not Gogglebox.' Lord Fowler told the Upper House today: 'There will be other leaders coming to this country who may also be controversial. 'The procedure as it stands means that either Mr Speaker or myself can effectively veto any proposal for a visiting leader to address parliament, at least as far as Westminster Hall is concerned. 'I think it is for parliament to consider whether there is a better way in which such decisions can be made. 'For the time being there may be a situation where one of the Speakers decides he cannot agree. 'Before we reach this point there should be, at the very least, some effort to reach consensus and a serious discussion on what the decision should be. I hope that we can now return to that previous practice.'  Since the President's executive order on immigration was imposed there have been mass protests in many cities, and more than 160 MPs have signed a motion calling for him to be denied the honour of speaking to both Houses of Parliament. Mr Bercow told MPs: 'What I will say is this: an address by a foreign leader to both Houses of Parliament is not an automatic right, it is an earned honour. 'Moreover, there are many precedents for state visits to take place to our country which do not include an address to both Houses of Parliament. 'Before the imposition of the migrant ban, I would myself have been strongly opposed to an address by President Trump in Westminster Hall. The Lords Speaker, Lord Fowler, laid into Mr Bercow this afternoon for failing to consult him before delivering the excoriating statement Former minister Sir Gerald Howarth raised the row as a point of order in the Commons this afternoon, urging Mr Bercow to 'reassure' the House it could have 'full confidence in the impartiality of the chair' 'After the imposition of the migrant ban by President Trump I am even more strongly opposed to an address by President Trump in Westminster Hall.' Mr Bercow said he has less influence over whether a speech could be made by President Trump in the Royal Gallery because it is in a different part of the building. But he told MPs it was customary for an invitation to be sent in the names of both speakers of Parliament - himself and Lord Fowler. 'I would not wish to issue an invitation to President Trump to speak in the Royal Gallery,' he told MPs. Mr Bercow concluded: 'We value our relationship with the United States; if a state visit takes place that is way beyond and above the pay grade of the Speaker. 'However, as far as this place is concerned I feel very strongly that our opposition to racism and to sexism and our support for equality before the law and an independent judiciary are hugely important considerations in the House of Commons.' The unexpected speech, which is said to have annoyed Lords counterpart Lord Fowler, was in response to a point of order raised by Labour MP Stephen Doughty. President Donald Trump and British Prime Minister Theresa May met at the White House last month where they attempted to rekindle the Special Relationship  John Bercow with the Emir of Kuwait - a country which bans Israelis and uses Sharia Law in family disputes Speaker Bercow raised no public objection to Chinese President Xi Jinping speaking to MPs and peers in the Royal Gallery in 2015. He watched on from the platform (pictured)  He spoke to highlight a Commons motion opposing Mr Trump's speech. It has been signed by 163 MPs - mostly from Labour and the SNP.  No 10 sources played down the intervention, insisting the itinerary for the visit had not been set and would be discussed 'in due course'.  Mr Shelbrooke told MailOnline: 'I do not support the attitude or some of the policies of Donald Trump but the Speaker must remain independent.  'I am concerned and upset that by declaring that Parliament is barring the democratically elected leader of our closest ally due to his 'racism and sexism' that we have said that the human rights abuses in countries such as China and Kuwait are OK as he welcomed them to parliament.  For hundreds of years the Speaker has presided over the House of Commons. The holder of the post traditionally maintains neutrality between parties, not least to avoid suggestions of bias when he or she chairs parliamentary debates. But John Bercow, who has been Speaker since 2009, has come under fire during his tenure for what some see as a lack of impartiality. His insistence that Donald Trump should not be allowed to address Parliament during his state visit has reignited the controversy over the invitation to the US President. In 2013, Mr Bercow was condemned as "a disgrace to the office of Speaker" after he suggested that Eastern European immigrants have more "aptitude and commitment" to work than British people. Mr Bercow succeeded Michael Martin - now Lord Martin of Springburn - who was Speaker from 2000 to 2009. When he was Speaker Lord Martin was criticised for leading efforts to block the publication of MPs' expenses, and for his handling of the affair once the revelations began. He was the first Commons Speaker to be forced to resign in 300 years, and his removal signalled a significant change in the role.  'It is student politics of the worst kind interested more in grandstanding than a consistent approach of dealing with world leaders with whom there are many national policies in their own countries that go against our principles and values.'  Mr Zahawi said Mr Bercow must 'think about' his position and explain his remarks to Parliament. He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: 'I think it is, in my book, unwise and he opens himself up to the accusation of hypocrisy, that's my point. 'I just think it's unwise on the Queen's Sapphire Jubilee to take a political position so blatantly against the elected leader of our closest ally when we are urging them, as I was last week - I am against the travel ban, especially for banning refugees from Syria who are desperate, who have been vetted - but it's unwise to ban the legitimately elected president of the United States of America, our closest ally when we're trying to urge them not to shoot from the hip, not to ban people, to exercise restraint, look at evidence. 'Yet we are now, or at least the Speaker of Parliament, who has a big, big responsibility, is now sort of talking the language of bans.' Mr Morris, PPS to Scottish Secretary David Mundell, told MailOnline: 'The Speaker does not "Speak" for me on this matter.  'Should President Trump wish to visit I would welcome the opportunity along with many other MPs from across all benches.' Foreign Affairs Committee chairman Crispin Blunt, a Tory MP, said: 'He has no idea whether he will be speaking for a majority of the House of Commons, and this is why Speakers do not express their opinion. 'That's the entire point, otherwise they can't remain neutral and above the political fray.' There was also an angry response from the US, with Republic congressman Joe Wilson telling Newsnight: 'That's very disappointing, because if ever in recent years there's been a more pro-British President of the United States, it's Donald Trump.' Critics privately put the chances of a confidence vote at '40 per cent', pointing out that the government would probably abstain - meaning Mr Bercow would probably survive with support from Labour MPs.  He has pledged to stand down by next year regardless - when he will have served nine years in the chair.  A growing number of Tories have been infuriated by the way Mr Bercow conducts business in the chamber, slapping them down for minor breaches of protocol and staging his own lengthy interventions in debates. Yesterday he was openly criticised by traditionalists for scrapping wigs for clerks. Westminster Hall is the oldest and most hallowed of the British Parliament's buildings, dating back to 1097, and has been at the center of the country's history. Only five foreign leaders since World War II have been invited to speak there - with Barack Obama one of them and the first US president to be afforded the honor. Amid mass protests over the travel ban - which has been suspended by US courts - the Commons is set to debate whether to cancel the visit later in the year. However, the result would only be symbolic. As Commons Speaker, Bercow is one of three individuals who control access to speaking rights at the hall.  Speaker Bercow made his extraordinary intervention in the House of Commons last night in response to a point of order The Trump Organization owns property in Scotland.  Donald Trump gives a press conference on the 9th tee at his Trump Turnberry Resort on June 24, 2016 in Ayr, Scotland Lord Rickets, former permanent secretary to the British Foreign Office, previously raised doubts that Mr Trump was 'specially deserving of this exceptional honor' He wrote that there is 'no precedent for a US president paying a state visit to this country in their first year. Most have had to wait till their third,' and added, 'now the Queen is put in a very difficult position.'  Speeches in the hall are rare. Besides Obama, South African President Nelson Mandela and Burma freedom fighter Aung San Suu Kyi are among those who have been given the honor.             From protesters toppling an effigy of George W Bush to demos against China's human rights record, state visits to the UK have had their fair share of controversy. Leaders of countries, seen as having backward laws - including Sharia Law - and issues with human rights, have been welcomed by the British governments in the past. And at least three controversial figures were allowed to address parliament by Mr Bercow himself. 2012 - Kuwait's Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, gave an address to members of both Houses of Parliament on Thursday, November 29 in the Queen's Robing Room, as part of his state visit to the UK Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, gave an address to members of both Houses of Parliament on Thursday, November 29 in the Queen's Robing Room, as part of his state visit to the UK. Following his arrival at Sovereign's Entrance, The Emir of Kuwait was received by Black Rod, Lieutenant General David Leakey and was taken to the Queen's Robing Room. Commons Speaker, John Bercow MP, gave a welcome address introducing The Emir of Kuwait's speech.   Kuwait has banned its citizens from entering 'into an agreement, personally or indirectly, with entities or persons residing in Israel, or with Israeli citizenship'. The country also uses Sharia Law for family disputes - where a woman's testimony is not valued as highly as a man's. 2015 - China's President Xi Jinping The extraordinary intervention at a key moment in British-Chinese relations will cause deep embarrassment for the government which hopes to use the visit to secure billions of pounds in trade deals. Pictured is President Xi addressing MPs and peers Protesters attempting to highlight human rights violations clashed with pro-China supporters during a procession welcoming Chinese president Xi to the UK. Scuffles broke out between the two groups after the police perimeter set up for protesters was ignored by both sides. But thousands of supporters also lined The Mall to welcome Xi Jinping with flags, T-shirts and hats - provided by the Chinese embassy. 1971 - Japan's Emperor Hirohito Emperor Hirohito, Japan's wartime head of state, made his first state visit to Britain in 1971 Emperor Hirohito, Japan's wartime head of state, made his first state visit to Britain in 1971. Former prisoners of war - angry at Japan's brutal militaristic past - protested by standing in silence as his carriage drove past. Some turned their back on the emperor and wore red gloves to symbolise war deaths while others whistled the popular Second World War march, Colonel Bogey. They called on Japan to offer them compensation and a full apology for their treatment during the war. 1978 Romania's Nicolae Ceausescu The President of Rumania, Nicolae Ceausescu, rides through London with the Queen in an open carriage, at the start of his state visit It was the first state visit by a Communist head of state to the UK and Romania was already well-known as one of the most corrupt and oppressive of the Soviet Union's Cold War satellite states. The Queen took drastic steps to avoid meeting Romanian dictator Nicolae Ceausescu any more than necessary, according to royal author Robert Hardman. 'While walking her dogs in the Palace gardens, she spotted Ceausescu and his wife Elena heading in her direction. 'As the Queen told a lunch guest some years later, she decided the best course of action was to hide behind a bush rather than conduct polite conversation,' he wrote. 1998 Japan's Emperor Akihito Just like his father did in 1971, Akihito met obvious hostility on London's streets from British prisoners of war. Former PoWs symbolically turned their backs on him, while others jeered him. Addressing the state banquet, Akihito spoke of his 'deep sorrow and pain' over the suffering inflicted by his country during the war, but did not apologise for the treatment of prisoners in work camps. 2003 - Russia's Vladimir Putin Her Majesty invited Russian President Vladimir Putin for a state visit in June 2003 Mr Putin's historic trip was the first by a Russian head of state since Tsar Nicholas I in 1843. Amnesty International and other human rights groups used the visit to highlight ongoing reports of killings, rape and torture by Russian forces in Chechnya. 2003 - US president George W Bush Tens of thousands of people came out to protest against George W Bush over the war in Iraq when the Queen hosted him in 2003. Pictured, the Queen and the President at Windsor Castle President George Bush's state visit, while Tony Blair was prime minister, was highly controversial. Tens of thousands of people came out to protest against the American leader and the war in Iraq, amid unprecedented security for a state visit. Demonstrations throughout Mr Bush's stay were mostly peaceful, and peaked with the toppling of an effigy of Mr Bush in Trafalgar Square, which parodied scenes of the capture of Baghdad. Stop The War Coalition said some 200,000 joined the demonstration. One protester threw an egg at the presidential cavalcade, but missed. 2005 - Chinese president Hu Jintao Tony Blair, Prime Minister, sees off President Hu Jintao of China (waving) from 10 Downing Street, London Noisy protests against Chinese rule in Tibet targeted Hu Jintao's state carriage procession. The Metropolitan Police was criticised for its hardline handling of the peaceful demonstrations, and admitted following a High Court case its officers acted unlawfully when they removed protesters' banners and flags. The Prince of Wales, a supporter of the Dalai Lama, had been accused of boycotting a Chinese state visit to the UK in 1999 by failing to attend the return banquet held for then-president Jiang Zemin. This time, during Hu Jintao's stay, Charles carefully side-stepped the issue by being out of the country on a tour of the US on the night of the official dinner. He did not meet Mr Hu on the remaining two days of his visit. 2007 - Saudi Arabia's king Abdullah Saudi Arabia's king Abdullah's state visit in 2007 revived controversy over his regime's abuse of human rights   The first state visit by a Saudi king to the UK for 20 years revived controversy over the regime's abuse of human rights and the government's halting of a Serious Fraud Office bribery inquiry into the al-Yamamah arms deal. Tensions surrounding the trip were heightened when the king insisted in an interview Britain was not doing enough to tackle terrorism. Around 100 human rights and anti-arms trade activists jeered and shouted 'shame on you' as the royal procession passed along The Mall in central London. 2010 - Qatar's Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani Prince Philip, Sheikha Mozah Bint Nasser Al Missned, Queen Elizabeth II and Emir of Qatar, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani Queen Elizabeth II and Emir of Qatar, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani The Emir of Qatar - a country which practices Sharia Law, involving lashes as punishments - was welcomed by Mr Bercow on October 26, 2010. Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani was welcomed by the Commons Speaker, John Bercow and thanked by the Lord Speaker, Baroness Hayman.  The Sheikh also met the Queen with his second of three wives, Sheikha Mozah Bint Nasser Al Missned.   How Speaker John Bercow has infuriated MPs by living the high life at taxpayers' expense   John Bercow has infuriated MPs for years with his extravagant spending - including £4,000 lunches, chauffeur driven cars and £100 on Sky Sports in his grace-and-favour home. The Speaker was embroiled in controversy within months of taking the chair in 2009 when it emerged he and wife Sally had ordered a £20,000 refurbishment of his official residence. They also moved a nanny into a self-contained flat on the estate - raising questions about whether the taxpayer was subsidising the family's childcare. The Speaker recently use public funds to purchase a £1,000 morning suit. A few years ago he bought another one for £3,200 Whereas the PM pays a tax charge for her apartment in Downing St, Mr Bercow is not thought to contribute a penny in rent or running costs.  He purchased a £3,200 morning suit for formal occasions, and recently bought another for £1,060. In 2015 Mr Bercow pledged to rein in his use of official cars last year after an FOI request revealed his travel to an event less than a mile from parliament had cost £172. In February this year it emerged he had charged the taxpayer almost £2,000 for hand finished beeswax candles, and bought postcard pictures of himself to send to fans. Speaker's House, which contains Mr Bercow's official residence  John Bercow has lived in the grace-and-favour residence in Speaker's House with wife Sally and their three children since 2009. Whereas the PM pays a tax charge for her apartment in Downing St, Mr Bercow is not thought to contribute a penny in rent or running costs. Soon after they moved in the Bercows ordered a refurbishment of the residence that cost some £20,000.  They were also allowed to move a nanny into a self-contained flat on the estate - raising questions about whether the taxpayer was subsidising the family's childcare. Last week MailOnline revealed that the Speaker had blown £2,400 on lunch with a Burmese priest and £175 on wine for MP cronies. Mr Bercow's official House account was also used for a £4,000 'Kosher' lunch with his Israeli counterpart, a £1,500 meal with the Italian speaker and a dinner with the German Speaker that cost nearly £1,300. The taxpayer forked out £5,000 on 'retirement' parties for three senior staff - including Andrew Walker, who was in charge of the MPs' expenses system in the run-up to the 2009 scandal. A trip to Japan for a conference last summer cost £20,000 - a year after he made another £10,000 visit to the country. A visit to Burma in October came in at £6,500. Extraordinarily, the public has also been paying more than £100 a month for Mr Bercow's Sky subscription at his opulent grace-and-favour apartment. The tennis-mad Arsenal fan has a sports package.  Defending the Speaker's spending, a spokeswoman said last week: 'The Speaker fulfils all the obligations expected of both him and his predecessors, and has added to these obligations an extensive outreach and civic engagement element to the role.' 'In spite of the fact that his responsibilities and commitments have increased as a result, the Speaker’s Office costs nearly 25 percent less to run than it did when he was elected in 2009.'   Share what you think The comments below have not been moderated. The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline. By posting your comment you agree to our house rules . Copy link to paste in your message Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday Metro Media Group