By Dave Burke For Mailonline Published: 05:37 EST, 7 February 2017 | Updated: 12:11 EST, 7 February 2017 e-mail var twitterVia = 'MailOnline'; DM.later('bundle', function(){ DM.has('shareLinkTop', 'shareLinks', { 'id': '4196726', 'title': 'Brave dog survives being mutilated by Bucharest Butcher', 'url': 'http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-4196726/Brave-dog-survives-mutilated-Bucharest-Butcher.html', 'eTwitterStatus': ' http://dailym.ai/2lkszrK via @' + twitterVia, 'articleChannelFollowButton': 'MailOnline', 'isChannel': false, 'hideEmail': true, 'placement': 'top', 'anchor': 'tl'}); }); 1.5k shares 104 View comments DM.later('bundle', function(){ DMS.Article.init('top'); }); A mutilated German Shepherd had her leg hacked off, teeth removed and tail snapped off by a brutal attacker, who sexually abused her before leaving her for dead on the streets of Bucharest. Horrified animal campaigners uncovered the catalogue of cruelty in the Romanian capital, where they also found three puppies had been brutally killed in the same street days earlier. One had been cut in half, one had its skull caved in and the other had been disemboweled. TV presenter Anneka Svenska, who joined a team from charity the International Aid for the Protection and Welfare of Animals ( IAPWA ), told MailOnline: 'It was awful, it was very hard to see that. Emotional: When the German Shepherd, named Spirit, was found, she'd had a leg hacked off, her teeth removed and her tail was gone Despite Spirit's horrific injuries, she survived lifesaving surgery and is now set for a new life in Britain. She is pictured with Nicky Stevens and Amanda Leask from IAPWA, and Anneka Svenska The group of animal lovers were horrified at the abuse Spirit had endured 'To have that in front of you was harrowing, we were all in shock. I couldn't believe someone could do that, especially the way she had been sexually violated.' She said she had been reduced to tears by the abuse suffered by the German Shepherd, who has been named Spirit. The cruel Bucharest Butcher sexually assaulted the eight-year-old stray with a knife, before leaving her alone in the snow.  Spirit was discovered the following morning by a woman who thought she was being targeted because she regularly feeds strays in her neighbourhood. Seriously injured: Spirit needed lifesaving surgery after being brutally savaged by the Bucharest Butcher Spirit had been savagely abused, but Anneka fears that the psychopath responsible will go unpunished There are believed to be more than 60,000 stray dogs in Bucharest, with many dying in the cold and dying cruel deaths Anneka holds a tiny black puppy, who was found by the team after its mother was discovered at the side of a busy road The group spent two hours searching for young puppies belonging to a black dog found at the side of a busy road Anneka said authorities are powerless to act in cases of extreme cruelty, and voiced fears that Spirit's attacker will go unpunished. 'It's important he's caught, he's obviously a psychopath. People who do things like this are dangerous, he's obviously incredibly unstable. 'It's really important that the Romanian police take this seriously.'  Incredibly the animal, who is eight years old, survived her ordeal after lifesaving emergency surgery at vet centre Dog Rescue Romania. And she is set for a new life in Britain once she has recovered enough to travel. Anneka said: 'She's a lovely dog, even after what's happened she's very trusting around humans.'  The woman who found her bleeding in the street thought Spirit had been 'carefully placed' in order to warn her to stop feeding strays. It is estimated that there are more than 60,000 feral dogs in Bucharest alone The team saw the huge number of dogs looked after at vet centre Dog Rescue Romania in Bucharest The centre looks after hundreds of dogs as Romania faces a stray dogs crisis Spirit was operated on at the centre after being brought in by a woman who discovered her in the freezing cold Anneka, 43, said she spoke to the woman who found Spirit. In the days before, she had found the three killed dogs, and was shocked at the barbarity she had seen. 'She was shaking, there were tears running down her face,' Anneka said. Anneka joined IAPWA founder Nicky Stevens, 41, and author Amanda Leask, 46, to find out out the stray animal crisis facing Romania. Sadly the abuse they discovered is not isolated. Anneka stated: 'The vet said they see this kind of thing all the time, it's not a one off. They get horrific victims of abuse and they can't do anything about it.'  Anneka holding a tiny black dog which was discovered in the freezing cold after a long search The puppies were found in a shed belonging to an old man, where a number of dog skulls were also discovered Campaigners have called for better protection for strays in Romania, where thousands roam the streets in often freezing conditions It is estimated that there are more than 60,000 feral dogs in Bucharest alone, a hangover from the Communist years, when people were forced to move into apartment blocks. When this happened, they would often abandon their pets.  Animal charity International Aid for the Protection and Welfare of Animals (IAPWA) established 'The Faith Project' last year. It was named after a Romanian dog which supporter Amanda Leask had adopted after she was rescued. The project sees IAPWA working with animal campaigners in Romania to offer new neutering and education programmes across the country. The charity said: 'Although she is no longer with us, she was lucky to have experienced so many things that thousands of dogs in Romania are denied.  'Through this project we aim to help many dogs so as they can receive the care they need with plans developed for creating a better long term future.'    During their time visiting the vets, they saw a dog die in front of them after it was run over, and she saw the team helping a dog who had been left paralysed.  When this happened, many families abandoned their pets. 'These dogs have been breeding since the 1970s,' Anneka said. One dog she adopted after a previous visit to Romania turned out to be a mixture of at least eight different breeds. Most of the thousands of strays take on the appearance of 'brown moggies', she said.  Until September 2013, euthanasia of unclaimed street dogs was illegal, but the law changed after the death of a four-year-old boy, named Ionuț Anghel. Within a fortnight of his fatal mauling, Romania's parliament approved the Stray Dogs Euthanasia Law with an absolute majority, and it was signed into law by the country's president, Traian Băsescu, the end of that month. It later transpired that the dogs who killed him were security dogs, and not strays.  Critics say the new laws have prompted cruel treatment of dogs, with 'inhumane' methods used to control the stray population. Anneka said privately-hired dog catchers often round up groups of strays, but there is no legislation to ensure they are treated humanely. In many cases, strays are treated with disdain. She described an instance four years ago when she saw a garage owner spraying a group of dogs - some of whom were young pups - with a hose, forcing them to run out into oncoming traffic on a busy motorway. The team holding rescued dogs at the Dog Rescue Romania centre, where thousands of animals are treated each year A young black puppy who was brought to the centre after being found in the snow after being separated from its mother  Charity chief Nicky Stevens holds one of the dogs which was rescued in Bucharest TV presenter Anneka meets one of the dogs being looked after at the vet centre in the Romanian capital Anneka stands over one of the dogs being treated at the vets centre, which looks after a huge number of strays in Bucharest 'In Romania the police are powerless to do anything,' she said.  Thousands of dogs are currently trying to survive outdoors in temperatures which can drop as low as minus 20C. They discovered a black dog in the freezing snow close to a motorway, but realised she should have had puppies with her. This prompted a franctic two-hour search for the tiny animals, who were eventually found alive in an old man's shed - where, tragically, there were a number of dog skulls. The dogs are thought to have frozen to death while seeking sanctuary from the cold. On Friday the charity will be holding a fundraising fashion show at 55 Exhibition Road in Knightsbridge between 7.30pm and 10pm, with money raised going to fight the dog meat and leather trades.  Actor Peter Egan will be among the speakers. For tickets, email nicky.stevens@iapwa.org  A full video  of the horrific ordeal, which contains very graphic images, has been loaded onto YouTube.  To support the charity, visit its Facebook page .  Stray dogs in Romania now have to endure temperatures as low as minus 25C Nicky Stevens pictured in Romanian capital Bucharest, which she visited to find out about the animal crisis facing Romania Loveable: The stray dogs of Bucharest face huge dangers each day Aptly-named German Shepherd Spirit will be brought to the UK as soon as she is well enough to travel   Share what you think The comments below have not been moderated. The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline. By posting your comment you agree to our house rules . Copy link to paste in your message Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday Metro Media Group