By Harvey Day For Mailonline Published: 18:44 EST, 6 February 2017 | Updated: 12:08 EST, 7 February 2017 e-mail var twitterVia = 'Femail'; DM.later('bundle', function(){ DM.has('shareLinkTop', 'shareLinks', { 'id': '4197516', 'title': 'Dr Yvonne Carmichael is brought to tears in Apple TreeYard finale', 'url': 'http://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article-4197516/Yvonne-Carmichael-brutal-rape-Apple-TreeYard-finale.html', 'eTwitterStatus': ' http://dailym.ai/2kkJ2h4 via @' + twitterVia, 'articleChannelFollowButton': 'Femail', 'isChannel': false, 'hideEmail': true, 'placement': 'top', 'anchor': 'tl'}); }); 59 shares 458 View comments DM.later('bundle', function(){ DMS.Article.init('top'); }); The dramatic conclusion of BBC's Apple Tree Yard aired last night and saw the show's central character Dr Yvonne Carmichael, played by Emily Watson, found not guilty of her rapist's murder. However, viewers took to social media to say they were outraged that Carmichael was reduced to tears in court when a barrister grilled her about her assault, demanding: 'Were you raped and is that the truth?' Watson's character, a respected geneticist, broke down in tears while shouting: 'Yes! Yes! Yes!’ Scroll down for video  The dramatic conclusion of BBC's Apple Tree Yard aired last night and saw the show's star Dr Yvonne Carmichael, played by Emily Watson, breakdown as she is forced to describe the details of her ordeal But viewers were outraged by the insensitive questioning Dr Yvonne Carmichael was subjected to  On Twitter, @Ellinorbog praised the show for portraying 'the reality of rape', saying: 'Thanks to Apple Tree Yard for actually discussing the reality of rape and why rape victims chose not to come forward.' The harrowing court scenes divided opinion amongst viewers with many concluding they had served only to discourage women from coming forward to press charges.   Fans were also stunned by a scene where Yvonne appeared to tell her lover Mark that she wanted her rapist George Selway dead.    She told Mark Costley, who was found guilty of manslaughter: 'I want you to kill him - I want you to smash his f****** face in' Fans were left stunned by the use of this flashback bedroom scene in which Yvonne expressed a desire to see her rapist dead One Twitter user even saying it served as an example of why some women do not come forward after experiencing a sexual assault A flashback scene shows her telling Mark, who was found guilty of manslaughter: 'I want you to kill him - I want you to smash his f****** face in.' However, she later tells him when she visits him in prison: 'People can say anything - you really can't tell the difference can you?' The series is an adaptation of Louise Doughty’s 2013 psychological thriller and while viewers were initially unsure about the show's potential to fill the void left by Sherlock, they seem to have been won over. The plot, played out over four parts on Sunday evenings, tells the tale of how Carmichael's affair is an escape from a loveless marriage with husband Gary (Mark Bonnar).  But it gets her into all sorts of trouble and eventually leads to a court appearance. Watson earlier told Daily Mail Weekend: 'My character Yvonne is a scientist who begins an affair with a stranger she meets at the House of Commons, not realising it will be the catalyst for a mess beyond her worst nightmares. However she later told him through a prison window: 'People can say anything - you really can't tell the difference can you?' The plot, played out over four parts on Sunday evenings, tells the tale of how Carmichael's affair gets her into all sorts of trouble 'When I first got the script I was nervous, but the director, Jessica Hobbs, convinced me to do it.  'Throughout filming we’ve talked about women and sexuality and it’s been a very interesting experience to be a part of.  'This is a complex thriller that shows women in a light they’re not often seen in.' 1. Was the court case remotely plausible? The notion that the affair between the two lovers accused of murder would not have been discovered by the detectives who’d arrested and investigated them, by the lawyers prosecuting or defending them, or by any of their families, friends, and work colleagues, was ludicrous.  Particularly as their sex life was conducted almost entirely in public (in the pub toilets and alleyways of Central London or crypts in the Palace of Westminster). As you do… Or don’t. Even the other characters didn’t believe Yvonne’s story. ‘Why DID your co-defendant kill George Selway?’ asked one legal advisor. ‘He was warning off him as a favour to me,’ Yvonne claimed blankly. ‘Quite a favour ! You hadn’t known him that long had you?’ he remarked. Yes you could say that. Plausible? How did they keep their affair under wraps for so long?  2. Why did such a strong, successful, intelligent, woman suddenly embark on this improbable descent of reckless sex, family betrayal, and delusion? Apart from some sudden, inexplicable, urge to self-destruct this wasn’t clear. ‘Why did you do it? Why with someone like that?’ asked her best friend, mystified, after it came out. ‘He didn’t seem the way he seems in court,’ Yvonne mumbled. Not much of an answer. ‘Please at least tell me that the sex was good.’ She didn’t answer that either. Even Carmichael seemed to know it was all rather forlorn and sordid – like the moment she sat on the loo taking her underwear at Mark’s behest. All she wanted was to go to a hotel. 3. Was Yvonne the worst diary writer of all time? ‘Just for that moment I doubted you. Forgive me my love… You are my knight in shining armour. You’ve admitted you acted alone. Keeping me safe.’ ‘If relationships are stories there is no happy ending for ours. But life as they say goes on.’ ‘Dear X. With good behaviour and help from your psychiatrist you’ll be free in five years.’ Frankly, her diary was so absurd it was hard to tell if she was serious. 4. Why couldn’t Carmichael ever accept she had done anything wrong, acted badly or out of character? When she was arrested for breaching the conditions of her bail, her immediate response was ‘I haven’t done anything.’ When her own lawyer pointed out she had texted Costley back twice, she merely complained ‘he’s not even supposed to have a phone in prison is he?’ Then when Costley’s QC destroyed her, branding her as a liar after Costley had revealed their affair, her voice-over merely commented: ‘courts aren’t about the truth. They’re about who tells the best story’ – as if their affair was irrelevant or she hadn’t driven him to Selway’s house and then away from the murder scene and kept it quiet. She ended up just convicted of perjury but spared prison. Even this only inspired self-pity rather than relief. ‘A suspended sentence ! Sounds about right. Suspended. Hanging above me - the sword that could fall on my neck at any time. And of course my good behaviour has to last a lifetime.’ This was a reference to the penance she had to pay with her husband Gary for her affair and enduring the trial. But even his support was not enough. She wanted him to tell their daughter about his own fleeting dalliance with his assistant. ‘Surely it’s only fair that she knows about you and Rosa?’ Hardly the same. 5. Why was Yvonne not affected by finding out what Costley had done? Yvonne was virtually indifferent to the violence he inflicted on Selway – as with most things so inured she was blank. ‘How did it go so far? Did he provoke you? I know you. You’re not a monster,’ she mused. Well he did stamp a man to death... For a supposed feminist heroine, she cared little about the way she or her lover affected other women? His wife, her own pregnant daughter, the colleague at Westminster that he lasciviously groped in public... Her wet lament ‘poor sergeant Johns’ was hardly an adequate response. Running from the truth: Yvonne was still lying to everyone even by the programme's end 6. Why was she visiting Costley in prison? Even after the affair, the murder, and the trial – even after her daughter’s baby, and her husband’s forgiveness, Yvonne was still lying: to her husband, her family, herself… By now she knew that ‘two weeks after I told you that George Selway raped me you were in that pub with Sergeant Johns.’ She knew now she was not ‘f**king a spook’ but a man whose job was to ‘check the duty logs’ and ‘supervise the shifts for CCTV monitoring crews.’ But when Costley called it ‘the flat’, she still corrected him: ‘the safe house.’ Costley had told his lawyer about their affair after he had seen her look up at her husband in the public gallery to let her know her their daughter had given birth to their grandson. He argued feebly that his QC ‘twisted everything’ and that he had only told her ‘because how else would anyone know? How would they know that it had been real?’ She forgave him, still soppy and love-sick, drifting back into her fantasy. ‘You panicked. Is that what happened with George Selway. I know you wouldn’t have meant to kill him.’ Like he crushed his voicebox by accident... 7. Did Carmichael encourage Costley to exact violent revenge for the rape on her behalf, as he claimed? The final episode did not remind us that she had asked Costley: ‘can’t you warn him off for me?’ and he had eagerly replied: ‘Nothing would give me greater pleasure. Don’t tell me you wouldn’t like to put the wind up that pathetic piece of s**t.’ ‘I would. I want him to crap himself with fear. I want to feel half as terrified as he made me feel.’ So when she picked him up at the station and they set off heading for Selway’s house (with Costley’s only plan to escape detection seemingly being to wear a hoodie) what did she think was going to happen or they were doing? It seemed pretty clear. Sure enough at the end of the finale, when she visited him in prison, Costley whispered ‘I never told them what you said.’ A flashback showed them in bed together and he asked: ‘what do you want?’ ‘I want you to kill him !’ Yvonne giggled. ‘I want you to smash his f**king face in !’ Through the prison glass she looked at him in wide-eyed denial and just murmured: ‘people can say anything.’ Not exactly a the type of rebuttal you’d give to an accusation of inciting murder. ‘You really can’t tell the difference can you?’ she added. It was true of course, but was she much better?   Copy link to paste in your message Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday Metro Media Group