By Siofra Brennan For Mailonline Published: 11:09 EST, 6 February 2017 | Updated: 16:10 EST, 6 February 2017 e-mail var twitterVia = 'Femail'; DM.later('bundle', function(){ DM.has('shareLinkTop', 'shareLinks', { 'id': '4196558', 'title': 'Step inside Meghan Markle\'s Toronto home', 'url': 'http://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article-4196558/Step-inside-Meghan-Markle-s-Toronto-home.html', 'eTwitterStatus': ' http://dailym.ai/2lgnMYi via @' + twitterVia, 'articleChannelFollowButton': 'Femail', 'isChannel': false, 'hideEmail': true, 'placement': 'top', 'anchor': 'tl'}); }); 112 shares 523 View comments DM.later('bundle', function(){ DMS.Article.init('top'); }); She's rumoured to have practically moved in with Prince Harry at his cottage at Kensington Palace. And Meghan Markle , 35, has already given a glimpse of how she might redecorate the Prince's bachelor pad if she makes it her permanent residence.  The Suits actress has given fans a tour of the interior of her Toronto home via Instagram , where frequent snaps of her dogs Bogart and Guy reveal her love of elegant yet cosy decor, fashion coffee table books and fresh flowers. Meghan Markle's Toronto home shows her love for white furnishings and luxury accents such as a grey Turkish cotton throw on the sofa and a fluffy sheepskin cushions propped up on her dining chairs in the background  Meghan's bed frame is an oversized wrought iron birdcage design and she continues her white theme to her bedroom with plain curtains and bedding Despite having two dogs with muddy paws, the actress has bravely opted for a white couch in her living space with a grey striped throw from the luxury textiles brand Pamuk and Co.  The brand specialises in traditional Turkish 'towels' made from high quality cotton, that can also be used as shawls, yoga mats, throws and baby mats and sell for a very reasonably 50 Canadian dollars or around £30.  Her dining table is white marble and she's placed a full length shabby chic vintage mirror resting on the wall behind it to create the illusion of extra space.  While the star favours mid-century modern furniture and a white colour palette, she adds vibrant pops of colour with accessories such as a red striped rug in the hallway. Meghan uses her cookbooks as a decor feature, including The Kinfolk Table which explores the relationships that surround the food we eat, by perching jugs of flowers on top of them  Meghan favours a white colour palette but adds pops of colour with accessories such as a red striped rug in the hallway  Above the bed in the guest room hangs a figure study watercolour by New York based artist and illustrator Inslee Fariss, estimated to have cost $650 (£520) The actress snuggles up with her dogs and a glass of wine on the white couch at her Toronto home,to which she's added understated striped cushions  Guy plays in the snow in Meghan's garden which she's kitted out with a huge BBQ and a seating area with wooden decking  She's also a fan of fresh flowers, especially pink peonies which she's declared are her favourite.  But rather than being a gift from Harry, she reveals that she regularly treats herself to her favourite bouquets.  'I bought these peonies for myself yesterday because they make me so endlessly happy. Do something sweet for yourself today too,' she advised her followers.    She's also a fan of a scented candle, including Diptyque's Figuier with fresh wood, green notes and crushed fig leaves and the Le Labo Santal 26 Classic Candle, £51, with 'gentle, smokey and leathery tones'. Meghan's bedside table features a Le Labo Santal 26 Classic Candle, £51, Vogue creative director Grace Coddington's memoir, and tasseled Buddhist prayer beads  Meghan's dog Bogart relaxes on a woven wooden chair by the dining table. Gray Malin's bird eye view of a beach can be seen hanging on the wall in the background  Guy and Bogart relax on a Pamuk and Co grey and white striped towel made from fine Turkish cotton  Meghan is also appreciates fine art, and has a print of one of fine art photographer Gray Malin's birds' eye view beach vistas on the the wall of her living area. Above the bed in the guest room hangs a figure study watercolour by New York based artist and illustrator Inslee Fariss, estimated to have cost $650 (£520). In her own room, Meghan's bed frame is an oversized wrought iron birdcage design and she continues her white theme with the curtains and bedding.   Meghan scents her home with diffusers and candles, including Diptyque's Figuier (right) with fresh wood, green notes and crushed fig leaves Meghan's artfully arranged shoe closet, which she reordered to perfection during a sick day  Adding a creative touch, Meghan uses a weathered vintage chest as a unique coffee table and decorates it with fresh flowers and one of her favourite cookery books  Like any self-respecting fashionista, Meghan has an extensive collection of shoes and recently rearranged her closet to perfection while having a sick day at home.  Meghan has artfully arranged her books around the house, turning them into design features by perching them underneath jugs of flowers.  She's a fan of coffee table fashion books, such as former Vogue Paris editor Carine Roitfeld's style bible and Linda McCartney's photographic memoir.  Her garden features a black metal love seat with black and white striped cushions and it's not just for human visitors to enjoy  Meghan in her immaculate back yard during a sunny Toronto afternoon after purchasing herself yet another bouquet of flowers   The star has added depth to the room with an aged vintage mirror, which she's placed behind her dining table A trio of prints on the wall add colour to Meghan's ultra neutral living space, which is softly lit with pendant lights hanging over the dining table The Kinfolk Table by magazine editor Nathan Williams also features in several of her snaps, a tome that's part cookbook, part narrative tale and part photography from around the world.   Her garden isn't neglected either, and Meghan grows her own hydrangeas which she snips and puts in jam jars to decorate the house.  She's also kitted out the space with a seating area with wooden decking, a large BBQ and a black metal love seat with monochrome striped cushions.   Meghan is a fan of a fashion coffee table book, such as former editor-in-chief of Vogue Paris Carine Roitfeld's style bible and Linda McCartney's photographic memoir  Meghan grows her own hydrangeas in the back yard which she snips and puts in jam jars to decorate the house  The bathroom is the one room of the house Meghan hasn't shown much of, but a snap of Guy and Bogart being washed gives a fleeting glimpse of the understated decor  Meghan's dog Guy stares out of the window as he perches on the couch, covered by a luxury throw from Pamuk and Co           I wonder how much Markle pays her PR team to keep o... Share what you think The comments below have not been moderated. The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline. By posting your comment you agree to our house rules . Your comment will be credited to your MailOnline persona Your comment will be credited to your MailOnline persona Copy link to paste in your message Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday Metro Media Group