By Alex Matthews For Mailonline Published: 07:27 EST, 7 February 2017 | Updated: 09:40 EST, 7 February 2017 e-mail var twitterVia = 'MailOnline'; DM.later('bundle', function(){ DM.has('shareLinkTop', 'shareLinks', { 'id': '4199488', 'title': 'Couple who lost baby are abused by carpet cleaning firm', 'url': 'http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-4199488/Couple-lost-baby-abused-carpet-cleaning-firm.html', 'eTwitterStatus': ' http://dailym.ai/2kmSTTR via @' + twitterVia, 'articleChannelFollowButton': 'MailOnline', 'isChannel': false, 'hideEmail': true, 'placement': 'top', 'anchor': 'tl'}); }); 1.2k shares 186 View comments DM.later('bundle', function(){ DMS.Article.init('top'); }); Dean, 26, and Charlotte Coutts, 22, say they received a barrage of abusive and threatening messages from Clean Carpets Plymouth in Devon A young couple who lost their unborn baby claim they were told they 'deserved' it by workers at a carpet cleaning firm after refusing to pay for a cancelled appointment. Dean, 26, and Charlotte Coutts, 22, say they received a barrage of abusive and threatening messages from Clean Carpets Plymouth, in Devon. The couple booked a session with the company, but called it off minutes later when Mrs Coutts was taken to hospital.  Two weeks after losing what would have been their first child they were stunned to receive an £85 invoice for the cancelled job - but refused to pay.  Mr Coutts, also from Plymouth, claims a representative of the firm even told him on the phone: 'You deserved to lose your baby.' He also says he was told 'The best thing has happened' to the couple's baby and that the they aren't 'worthy of being parents'. The company declined to comment when the accusations were put to them. Mr Coutts claimed the whole experience had added to their distress at an already devastating time. He said: 'We didn't even cancel the job at the last minute - we booked the appointment and within ten minutes of taking it said we could not do it any more, 'He said it's fine then a few weeks later we got messages. They were disgusting and aggressive. 'He was saying we owe him money and he would take us to court. My wife is just in bits, it's terrible for me to see. She's not in the best place.' Mrs Coutts claims these were the messages she received from a boss at Clean Carpets Plymouth, taunting her over the price of her cancelled job Police have now been called in to investigate the complaint. Mr Coutts, who works as a fabricator, added: 'It has not been easy. 'The trouble is, we went through the miscarriage and this had made it all worse.'  Mrs Coutts, who was 12 weeks pregnant when she lost the baby, has also written about their experience on Facebook, and her post has been shared more than 2,000 times. The messages sent to them demanded money and taunted the couple by increasing their bill. One message reads: 'See you in court.' While another says: 'Not the brightest are you Charlotte' and another calls the couple 'Self-employed time wasters'. Two weeks after losing what would have been their first child Mr and Mrs Coutts were stunned to receive an £85 invoice for the cancelled job from Clean Carpets Plymouth  Mrs Coutts said: 'Unfortunately I couldn't (re-book) as I had just lost my baby and got out of hospital a few days prior. 'It wasn't a priority at that time. 'So following that, they told me to read their terms and conditions that wasn't stated when I originally spoke to them saying I owe them the full amount of £85. 'Because I refused to pay it, they are taking us to small claims court. 'All I have had is harassment and evil messages telling me that I owe them more money because I was begging them to stop messaging me.' When contacted, the manager of Clean Carpets Plymouth Ben Harbour said he did not wish to comment on any of the accusations made by the couple. Devon and Cornwall Police said: 'We are currently investigating an incident that could fall foul of the malicious communications act. Inquiries are underway.'   Share what you think The comments below have been moderated in advance. The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline. By posting your comment you agree to our house rules . Copy link to paste in your message Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday Metro Media Group