By Will Stewart In Moscow for MailOnline Published: 07:59 EST, 6 February 2017 | Updated: 15:20 EST, 6 February 2017 e-mail var twitterVia = 'MailOnline'; DM.later('bundle', function(){ DM.has('shareLinkTop', 'shareLinks', { 'id': '4195892', 'title': 'Putin\'s child soldiers: Boys and girls trained to use machine guns\u00A0', 'url': 'http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-4195892/Putin-s-child-soldiers-trained-use-machine-guns.html', 'eTwitterStatus': ' http://dailym.ai/2lfiJay via @' + twitterVia, 'articleChannelFollowButton': 'MailOnline', 'isChannel': false, 'hideEmail': true, 'placement': 'top', 'anchor': 'tl'}); }); 76 shares 117 View comments DM.later('bundle', function(){ DMS.Article.init('top'); }); This is Vladimir Putin 's Young Army, where children are groomed Soviet-style in military skills and patriotism. Unveiled last year, the Yunarmia has already recruited more than 42,000 school students. It is a 'military and patriotic' organisation that has been criticised as an echo of Hitler Youth. TV pictures showed star recruits from Moscow being presented to the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Russian Federation at a time of rising tension with the West. A young recruit learns how to use a weapon during his training with the the Yunarmia The Yunarmia has already recruited more than 42,000 school students. It is a 'military and patriotic' organisation that has been criticised as an echo of Hitler Youth Children as young as 10 are recruited to the army, which has 42,000 young members Recruits pledge to make themselves prepared for the service and labour for the sake of the Motherland Schoolchildren as young as ten are taught military drills, how to handle Kalashnikovs, practice wrestling and learn to make parachute jumps. The project was rolled out in Yaroslavl last May with 2,014 cadets, and began nationwide in September. The oath of male and female 'yun-armists' (young soldiers) reads: 'I swear to aim for victories in studies and sports, to live a healthy lifestyle, to make myself prepared for the service and labour for the sake of the Motherland, to cherish the memory of the heroes who fought for freedom and independence of our Motherland, to be a patriot and a dignified citizen of Russia.' The project was rolled out in Yaroslavl last May with 2,014 cadets, and began nationwide in September Officially the new set-up is known as the Voluntary Society of Support for the Army, Air Force and Navy, known as DOSAAF, and it mirrors a Soviet organisation Russia has witnessed a surge of nationalism since Putin's land grab in Crimea in 2014 The moving force behind the young army was hawkish defence minister Sergei Shoigu, a close ally of Putin's. Officially the new set-up is known as the Voluntary Society of Support for the Army, Air Force and Navy, known as DOSAAF, and it mirrors a Soviet organisation. Recruit Igor Izbayev, 18, from Yekaterinburg, said: 'Yunarmia is increasing the patriotic spirit of the country. 'It is now popular. Hard times, wars are everywhere. It is necessary to increase the patriotism to avoid the civil war like in Ukraine. There is never too much patriotism.' Young soldiers take part in military drills, and the move has been backed by Russian sports stars  One Russian website complained that the young army was 'plagiarising Hitler Youth' - but the report was swiftly removed Unveiled last year, the Yunarmia has already recruited more than 42,000 school students When the young army was established, General-olonel Alexander Kolmakov said that reviving an old tradition of children and youth organisations can lead to the 'growing of a generation of citizens who treat the history with care, who are kind and responsive, ready to build a bright future for themselves and for their country'. His phrase 'svetloe buduschee' or 'bright future' was widely used in Soviet times to describe the expected great future of the USSR when Communism finally triumphed over the West's capitalism. 'The Yunarmia movement, created upon the initiative of the Russian Defence Ministry and supported by the President of Russian Federation, will unite all organisations and bodies that train the citizens before they join the army,' he said last year. Recruits are trained in carrying out military operations in the young army, likened to the Hitler Youth Recruits are made to do push ups under the supervision of army officers 'And DOSAAF will allow members of the new movement to use its facilities for training.' Russia has witnessed a surge of nationalism since Putin's land grab in Crimea in 2014. The Russian army is accused of supporting pro-Putin rebels in eastern Ukraine, amid fears a new war could erupt. And Moscow's forces have been deployed in Syria propping up the Assad regime. Top brass launched the young army saying they want to make the country's 'growing number of patriotic military movements' more structured. Some young army groups are sponsored by major enterprises, for example the Ural Mining and Metallurgical Company. The new cadet force had 'a proper military-patriotic and military-sports programme' More than 40,000 schoolchildren have been recruited in the space of just a year Olympic pole vaulter Yelena Isinbayeva is among those who have been prominent in backing the initiative  Russian sports stars are backing the initiative. Olympic pole vaulter Yelena Isinbayeva, 34, and Svetlana Khorkina, 38, have been prominent in backing the initiative. The first-ever woman in space, cosmonaut Valentina Tereshkova, 79, attended an 'initiation ceremony' to welcome to new 'conscripts'. 'I hope that studies and practical training will give you a chance to join the Russian Army later and to become the true defenders of our Motherland,' she told the children. The complicated international situation demands attention and training, she explained, alluding to perceived Western threats to Russia. Svetlana Khorkina, two-time Olympic champion in gymnastics, at a Young Army event All recruits make a pledge to 'aim for victories in studies and sports' School children joining Young Army, which has been likened to the Hitler Youth 'I congratulate you. I want to hope that our joint work will produce new sportsmen and new heroes. I wish each of you becomes the decent officer of the Russian Army.' The new cadet force had 'a proper military-patriotic and military-sports programme', she said. 'Military-type sports, army service studies ~ it is not only about assembling and dissembling guns, it is also a course for a young soldier with marching and firing training with pneumatic guns. Children will study tactics and the military history of Russia.' They will also be taught the basics of first aid. One Russian website complained that the young army was 'plagiarising Hitler Youth' - but the report was swiftly removed. 'Something similar to German organisation Hitler Youth is coming from Russia,' it stated. Other criticism has been more muted. Irina Abankina, head of the Institute for development of education: 'Beyond any doubt, education in the spirit of responsibility and patriotism is extremely important. However, it is very easy to cross the line and go into a lot more aggressiveness.'   Share what you think The comments below have not been moderated. The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline. By posting your comment you agree to our house rules . Copy link to paste in your message Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday Metro Media Group