By Imogen Blake For Mailonline Published: 07:33 EST, 7 February 2017 | Updated: 10:18 EST, 7 February 2017 e-mail var twitterVia = 'Femail'; DM.later('bundle', function(){ DM.has('shareLinkTop', 'shareLinks', { 'id': '4199316', 'title': 'Asda starts storing bottles of tomato ketchup in the FRIDGE', 'url': 'http://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/food/article-4199316/Asda-starts-storing-tomato-ketchup-FRIDGE.html', 'eTwitterStatus': ' http://dailym.ai/2lkLlzk via @' + twitterVia, 'articleChannelFollowButton': 'Femail', 'isChannel': false, 'hideEmail': true, 'placement': 'top', 'anchor': 'tl'}); }); 101 shares 311 View comments DM.later('bundle', function(){ DMS.Article.init('top'); }); Asda has started stocking its tomato ketchup in the fridge as a fierce Twitter debate rages about the best place to store the condiment. Ketchup fans have been embroiled in a row for several days online about whether the sauce belongs in the fridge or the pantry before it's been opened, and once the seal has been broken. Asda - one of Britain's 'big four' supermarkets - has started refrigerating some of its bottles while keeping others on shelves to see which one customers prefer. Asda's Clapham superstore is storing some of its own-brand bottles (on the second shelf from the top)with other ketchup bottles such as Heinz  Ketchup was believed to have been invented in 1812 - at that time it would have been kept in the cupboard not the fridge because it contained much more salt The trial, at Asda's Clapham superstore in south west London, follows fierce social media exchanges over where ketchup belongs. The retailer's own poll showed that 53 per cent favour the fridge, against 47 per cent who opt for room temperature. The split is similar amongst Twitter users. Microbiologist for Initial Hygiene, Dr Peter Barratt, told FEMAIL back in 2014 that ketchup used to contain more salt, which acted as a preservative and meant you didn't need to store it in the fridge after opening. But now he says recipes contain less salt and therefore the condiment won't last as long out of the fridge, once it has been exposed to air. He said: 'No one kept tomato ketchup in the fridge a decade ago, but then it contained more salt. In recent years, food manufacturers have had to cut the amount of salt, a natural preservative, because of its links to high blood pressure. 'Sodium benzoate, a preservative that used to feature in some brands of ketchup, has also been dropped by manufacturers because of its links to hyperactivity in children. 'The vinegar and tomatoes in ketchup give it a high level of acidity, which slows down bacterial growth. 'However, while ketchup could keep safely in the cupboard for a couple of weeks, it's best kept in the fridge and eaten within the stated eight-week period.'  The verdict? Refrigerate after opening.  People have been tweeting their opinion about ketchup being kept in the fridge or cupboard for several days now, but no-one can agree on a definitive answer On Heinz bottles, the advice is to refrigerate after opening and then to use within eight weeks.  But that hasn't stopped some people disregarding the advice - and even questioning the sanity of those who keep the condiment in the fridge.  Asda's Victoria Williams said 'Tomato ketchup is a staple of many of our customers weekly shop but recent debate has prompted us to trial two areas to stock our great value own brand tomato ketchup sauces, so we can end the debate once and for all and give everyone what they want.' Asda's Clapham Superstore will be stocking own brand tomato ketchup in refrigerated and room temperature areas across the next week.  Copy link to paste in your message Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday Metro Media Group