By Gareth Davies For Mailonline Published: 10:14 EST, 6 February 2017 | Updated: 15:05 EST, 6 February 2017 e-mail var twitterVia = 'MailOnline'; DM.later('bundle', function(){ DM.has('shareLinkTop', 'shareLinks', { 'id': '4196410', 'title': 'Iran boasts it only needs \'seven minutes to hit Tel Aviv\'', 'url': 'http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-4196410/Iran-boasts-needs-seven-minutes-hit-Tel-Aviv.html', 'eTwitterStatus': ' http://dailym.ai/2lgmblz via @' + twitterVia, 'articleChannelFollowButton': 'MailOnline', 'isChannel': false, 'hideEmail': true, 'placement': 'top', 'anchor': 'tl'}); }); 61 shares 38 View comments DM.later('bundle', function(){ DMS.Article.init('top'); }); Russian-made Sam-6 surface-to-air missiles are seen in front of a portrait of Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei Iran has boasted it only needs seven minutes to hit a US airbase in Tel Aviv with a ballistic missile just days after Donald Trump put the country on notice over its missile testing. Mojtaba Zonour, a former advisor to the Iranian Supreme Leader's Representative at the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC), threatened the President by saying any mistake made by the US would result in action.  'The US army's fifth fleet has occupied a part of Bahrain, and the enemy's farthest military base is in the Indian Ocean but these points are all within the range of Iran's missile systems and they will be razed to the ground if the enemy makes a mistake,' he said. 'And only seven minutes is needed for the Iranian missile to hit Tel Aviv.'    Last week, a top adviser to the Iranian supreme leader said the country will not yield to 'useless' US threats from 'an inexperienced person' over its ballistic missile programme. Donald Trump said it was putting Iran 'on notice' over its 'destabilising activity' after it test-fired a cruise missile. But Ali Akbar Velayati said, who is a senior counsel to Iran's most powerful man Ayatollah Ali Khamenei hit back. 'This is not the first time that an inexperienced person has threatened Iran,' he said.  'The American government will understand that threatening Iran is useless.' Iran hit back at Donald Trump's comments saying the country was being put on notice over its 'destabilising activity' after it test-fired a ballistic missile Trump had said in a tweet 'Iran has been formally put on notice' after his administration said it was reviewing how to respond to the launch that Iran said was solely for defensive purposes. Iran claimed on Wednesday it had tested the new ballistic missile but said it did not breach a nuclear deal reached with six major powers in 2015 or a UN Security Council resolution that endorsed the accord.  Velayati responded by saying: 'Iran does not need permission from any country to defend itself.'  The exchange led Trump to take to Twitter once again on Friday to say, 'Iran is playing with fire - they don't appreciate how "kind" President Obama was to them. Not me!' In the latest war of words, Commander of the IRGC Aerospace Force Brigadier General Amir Ali Hajizadeh echoed Zonour's threats.  He told Fars News : 'If the enemy makes a mistake our roaring missiles will hit their targets.'   A US official said Iran had test-launched the medium-range Sumar ballistic missile last Sunday and it exploded after travelling 630 miles (1,010 km).  Iran said it had been a successful launch. A series of tests conducted by Iran's elite Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC) in 2016 caused international concern, with some powers saying any launch of nuclear-capable ballistic missiles would violate UN Security Council resolution 2231. A senior leader to Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's most powerful figure, said America's threats were useless and that Iran did not need permission to defend itself Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Monday that all 'responsible nations' should back new sanctions against Iran, speaking during a meeting with his British counterpart Theresa May in London. He said he welcomed US President Donald Trump's 'insistence on new sanctions against Iran'. 'I think other nations should follow suit, certainly responsible nation,' he said as he accused Iran of 'provocation after provocation'. He said: 'Iran seeks to annihilate Israel, it says so openly, it seeks to conquer the Middle East, it threatens Europe, it threatens the West, it threatens the world. 'I'd like to talk to you on how we can ensure that Iran's aggression does not go unanswered.'  Theresa May and Benjamin Netanyahu Netanyahu is a fierce opponent of the deal with world powers, including Britain, in which Iran pledged to curb its nuclear programme in return for sanctions relief. A spokeswoman for May said the two leaders would 'talk about a range of security and international issues, including the Middle East peace process'. She said May would raise Britain's concern about how the 'continued increase of settlements activity undermines trust'. There has been a sharp acceleration in Israeli settlement expansion plans since Trump took office last month, with more than 6,000 new homes announced in less than a fortnight. British Minister for the Middle East Tobias Ellwood warned on Wednesday that the plans made the two-state solution 'much harder to achieve'. Britain voted in favour of a UN Security Council resolution passed in December demanding a halt to settlement construction.  The vote prompted Israel to temporarily scale back relations. But Britain refused to sign the final statement of a Middle East peace conference held in Paris last month that was strongly opposed by Israel.  Under the nuclear agreement, most UN sanctions were lifted a year ago.  But Iran is still subject to an UN arms embargo and other restrictions, which are not technically part of the deal. Trump has frequently criticised the Iran nuclear deal, which restricts Tehran's nuclear activities in exchange for the lifting of the sanctions, calling the agreement weak and ineffective.    Iran has tested a cruise missile called Sumar that is capable of carrying nuclear weapons in addition to test-firing a medium-range ballistic missile. The Sumar cruise missile was built in Iran and traveled around 600 km in its first known successful test.  It is believed to be capable of carrying nuclear weapons and may have a range of 2,000 to 3,000km, intelligence sources said.  Cruise missiles are harder to counter than ballistic missiles since they fly at lower altitudes and can evade enemy radar, confounding missile defense missiles and hitting targets deep inside an opponent's territory. But the biggest advantage from Iran's point of view, a security expert told Die Welt , was that cruise missiles are not mentioned in any United Nations resolutions that ban work on ballistic missiles capable of carrying nuclear weapons.  International sanctions on Tehran were lifted in January last year under a nuclear deal brokered in 2015 by Britain, France, Germany, China, Russia and the United States. Under the nuclear deal Iran agreed to curb its nuclear program in exchange for lifting of most sanctions.  According to a 2015 UN resolution endorsing the deal, Iran is still called upon to refrain from work on ballistic missiles designed to deliver nuclear weapons for up to eight years.    Share what you think The comments below have been moderated in advance. The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline. We are no longer accepting comments on this article. Copy link to paste in your message Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday Metro Media Group