By Tim Sculthorpe, Mailonline Deputy Political Editor and Jason Groves Deputy Political Editor For The Daily Mail Published: 19:25 EST, 6 February 2017 | Updated: 12:22 EST, 7 February 2017 e-mail var twitterVia = 'MailOnline'; DM.later('bundle', function(){ DM.has('shareLinkTop', 'shareLinks', { 'id': '4198032', 'title': 'Labour slams the Government for waving a \'white flag\' on housing', 'url': 'http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-4198032/Bring-mansion-blocks-fix-homes-crisis-says-govt.html', 'eTwitterStatus': ' http://dailym.ai/2lixPMq via @' + twitterVia, 'articleChannelFollowButton': 'MailOnline', 'isChannel': false, 'hideEmail': true, 'placement': 'top', 'anchor': 'tl'}); }); 64 shares 578 View comments DM.later('bundle', function(){ DMS.Article.init('top'); }); Labour has condemned the Government's plans for a new housing drive as waving the 'white flag' to people's hopes of buying a house. Unveiling a long awaited plan to radically increase the number of new homes in England, Sajid Javid admitted getting on the housing ladder was a 'distant dream' for millions. The Communities Secretary has insisted it is a 'false choice' for people to decide between buying and renting in an over inflated housing market. But his Labour shadow John Healey dismissed the plans when they were presented to MPs in Parliament today. Communities Secretary Sajid Javid unveiled the Government's plans for housing in the Commons today, pictured  Mr Javid said it was time to 'get real' on the 'broken' housing market as he outlined Government plans to dramatically increase the number of houses being built  Mr Healey said: 'It is tragically clear from this statement that seven years of failure on housing is set now to stretch to 10. 'We were promised a white paper - we're presented with a white flag. 'This is a Government with no plan to fix the country's deepening housing crisis.' Mr Healey said home ownership was 'in freefall for young people', adding: 'Yet this white paper confirms the Tory Party has given up on home ownership. 'It waters down the promise to help with those who need help to get a first foot in the housing market.' Among the key proposals in today's housing white paper are:   The housing white paper published today set out plans to make more longer-term tenancies available in the private sector to give greater security to renters, as well as addressing record high house prices.  Unveiling his plans, Mr Javid told MPs: 'Our housing market is broken. Since 1970, house price inflation in Britain has far outstripped the rest of the OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development). 'The idea of owning or renting a safe, secure place of your own, for many, has now become a distant dream.' He added: 'Behind the statistics are millions of ordinary working people. 'I'm talking about the first-time buyer, who's saving hard but won't have enough for a deposit for almost a quarter of a century. 'Or the couple in the private rented sector, handing half of their income straight to their landlord. 'The symptoms of this broken market are being felt by real people in every community. 'It's one of the biggest barriers to social progress that this country faces. 'But its root cause is simple - for far too long, we have not built enough houses.'  Labour shadow minister John Healey dismissed the new housing plans when they were presented to MPs in Parliament today, pictured  Mr Javid had earlier told the Today programme: 'People want a decent home to buy or a decent home to rent, it's a choice for them, we should be helping both types of tenancies.' Asked if the Government would prioritise home ownership, he said: 'It is a false choice. The reality is we need more homes, whether to rent or buy.' Under plans published today, councils will be ordered to give permission for hundreds of thousands more homes. Ministers are to tear up rules that allow councils to assess their own housing needs and impose a new national formula. The plans could see the creation of new Continental-style 'mansion blocks' as ministers try to increase housing density in England's towns and cities to avoid concreting over the countryside. Planning rules will be torn up to allow buildings to be extended upwards 'by a floor or two'.  There will also be a new push to revive town centres by allowing abandoned shops to be converted to housing. And railway station car parks could be moved underground to provide space for new housing. Communities Secretary Sajid Javid, pictured arriving for Cabinet today, is unveiling a new housing strategy to secure thousands of new properties  Today's move effectively reintroduces national housing targets after they were scrapped by the Coalition Government in 2010.  Leasehold agreements which often land homeowners with thousands of pounds of hidden charges could be banned. Ministers have ordered a review of the practice, which sees buyers have to pay an annual ground rent and service charges to the freeholder. Developers have been selling new-build homes with leases attached, leaving buyers with no choice but to pay. A Whitehall official said: 'Some buyers are not aware buying a leasehold house can be more expensive than a freehold house in the long run. 'Some ground rents can increase significantly over the lease period … We will consult on a range of measures to tackle all unfair and unreasonable abuses of leasehold.' The move puts ministers on collision course with countryside campaigners, who warn that England's green belt land is already 'under siege'. Writing in the Daily Mail today, Communities Secretary Sajid Javid says the move is needed to end the situation where thousands of young families 'have found the door to the housing market slammed in their face'. The changes are the centrepiece in today's long-awaited housing White Paper, which is designed to deliver on Theresa May's pledge to tackle the housing crisis. Today's White Paper is designed to tackle a situation that has left millions of first-time buyers priced out of the market and many growing families unable to afford the move to a larger home.  Forecasts suggest that 5.3 million new homes will be needed in England over the next 25 years, with immigration accounting for 37 per cent of new demand. But ministers believe 40 per cent of English councils have housing plans that fail to 'meet the projected growth'. The Campaign to Protect Rural England warns that England's green belt is 'under siege' from developers looking to build new housing and the infrastructure to serve it. The destruction of green belt land is prompting growing alarm on the Tory benches, with half the Cabinet, including Mr Javid and Mrs May, facing local protests over proposed developments.  But Mr Javid will insist today that the crisis can be tackled by increasing the density of new homes in towns and cities. Ministers are also determined to put pressure on developers to build much more quickly, rather than sitting on sites for years in the hope they will increase in value. Car parks, like this one at Luton railway station, waste enormous amounts of space. They could be built underground or as undercrofts below new blocks of flats Having a safe, secure place to call your own is something many of us take for granted. Yet with the average house now costing eight times average earnings, many of our children and grandchildren have found the door to the housing market slammed shut in their faces. The only way to open it again is by building a lot more houses. But as today's White Paper makes clear, we don't have to tear up our precious countryside to do so. We're simply not making the best use of the space that's available. London, for example, is much less densely populated than European equivalents such as Paris, Berlin and Rome. Madrid is a beautiful city of low-rise buildings and broad boulevards, yet every hectare is home to 3.5 times as many people as the same space in the British capital. But increasing density doesn't mean filling our towns and cities with huge, ugly tower blocks packed with tiny one-bed rabbit hutches.  After all, some of the most densely populated parts of London are places such as Kensington and Chelsea, home to extremely desirable mansion blocks, mews houses and grand terraced streets. There's plenty of scope for building more of the high-quality homes people want to live in, in places where they want to live. We just have to be more imaginative. Look at your railway station. The chances are it's in a built-up area where demand for housing is high, yet it's also quite likely to be surrounded by under-used or derelict land that would be perfect for housing.  Maybe that's warehouses that could be better situated elsewhere, or car parks that could be moved underground. Elsewhere, buildings could be extended upwards by a floor or two to increase capacity without ruining skylines. Creating more homes in the hearts of our towns and cities will also revitalise our high streets. I grew up above the family shop on the high street in Bristol, and loved being able to walk out of the door into a thriving, buzzing community. Getting more people living in town centres, within walking distance of shops, pubs and cafes, won't just create lively new communities – it will provide a much-needed boost for local businesses.  Add in serious support for new infrastructure – from GP surgeries to playgrounds – and it's clear our built-up areas are home to huge untapped potential. The plans I'm publishing today show how we can make them home to thousands of ordinary working people too.   Share what you think The comments below have not been moderated. The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline. By posting your comment you agree to our house rules . Copy link to paste in your message Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday Metro Media Group