By Alexander Robertson For Mailonline Published: 04:26 EST, 7 February 2017 | Updated: 12:09 EST, 7 February 2017 e-mail var twitterVia = 'MailOnline'; DM.later('bundle', function(){ DM.has('shareLinkTop', 'shareLinks', { 'id': '4198892', 'title': 'Man who tried to murder wife is spared jail after she begs judge', 'url': 'http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-4198892/Man-spared-jail-wife-tried-kill-begs-judge.html', 'eTwitterStatus': ' http://dailym.ai/2kmkYKZ via @' + twitterVia, 'articleChannelFollowButton': 'MailOnline', 'isChannel': false, 'hideEmail': true, 'placement': 'top', 'anchor': 'tl'}); }); 42 shares 223 View comments DM.later('bundle', function(){ DMS.Article.init('top'); }); Christopher Shipp (left) tried to murder his wife Shirlianne (right) after she confronted him about money he had stolen from her The wife of a retired dentist who attempted to murder her after he had lost £200,000 in an investment scam has said the pair 'remain good friends'. Christopher Shipp escaped jail after a passionate plea for leniency from wife Shirlianne, from who Shipp stole cash and jewellery in a bid to meet debts. Leicester Crown Court heard that in his desperation, the 63-year-old thought killing them both was the only option. When his wife Shirlianne confronted him about the missing money, Shipp grabbed her around the waist, put a tie around her neck from behind and twisted it tightly. He told her: 'It's the only way. I'll be with you in half an hour; I've got the tablets downstairs.' But a judge ruled that the 'highly unusual case' called for a 'merciful and compassionate' sentence, considering the victim's plea for leniency. Shirlianne insisted she was still 'good friends' with her estranged husband. Speaking at her home in Countesthorpe, Leics., she said: 'We're both adults and we want to leave what happened in the past. 'We remain good friends and are still in contact. I really don't wish to say any more about it.'  Philip Gibbs, prosecuting, said the attack took place after Mrs Shipp confronted her husband over the £17,686 missing from her personal account. 'She tried to plead with him about their children and grandchildren and he relented and let her go,' he said. 'He then lay on the bed staring into space. She could see he was in a desperate state. Shirlianne insisted she was still 'good friends' with her estranged husband, despite his efforts to kill her When his wife Shirlianne confronted him, Shipp (pictured with his wife outside court) grabbed her around the waist, put a tie around her neck from behind and twisted it tightly 'The victim is in court and she's told officers she doesn't want him to go to prison because he wasn't himself at the time. 'She believes he didn't want to harm her but he thought he was acting in their best interests. 'They continue to be friends and he remains in her life.' Shipp of Sapcote, Leicestershire, pleaded guilty to attempting to murder his wife of 30 years at their former home in the Lutterworth area, on March 10 last year. He also admitted stealing £17,686 from her internet account and theft of two rings and a bracelet worth £15,000, that he pawned for about £3,000 - although the jewellery was later recovered. Shipp of Sapcote, Leicestershire, pleaded guilty to attempting to murder his wife of 30 years at their former home (pictured) Mrs Shipp accompanied her husband to see his GP the day after he tried to strangle her and was treated for depression and sent for counselling. But in May his mental health deteriorated and he attempted suicide and was admitted to the Bradgate psychiatric unit at Leicester's Glenfield Hospital. After receiving treatment he reported the overseas investment scam to the police. After years of hard work he decide to invest all his money in the expectation that it would land him a £500,000 return. Instead he got nothing and admitted using funds stolen from his wife, whilst still under the influence of the conman. Shipp, of Sapcote, Leicestershire, pleaded guilty to attempting to murder his wife of 30 years (shown leaving Leicester Crown Court, right) Shipp then voluntarily confessed to having attempted to murder his wife in desperation before intending to kill himself, which ended with him being charged. Judge Nicholas Dean QC handed Shipp a two-year jail sentence, suspended for two years, with 200 hours of unpaid work and a 20 day rehabilitation activity requirement. The judge said the couple, who married in 1985 five years after they met, had a strong relationship. 'As far as I'm able to tell it was a loving and happy marriage for many years, ' he said. He told Shipp: 'You fell under the influence of a conman and began to use money, no doubt pension savings, in the expectation you'd earn a considerable return from your investment - you were the victim of a fraud.' He said the defendant thought killing his wife would 'spare her the anguish' over his own suicide and the scam coming to light. Judge Dean said it did not seem to be a serious plan to kill her and she suffered no physical injury although she was deeply 'shocked.' He said: 'It has led to a loss of trust on her part. Leicester Crown Court (pictured) heard that in his desperation, the 63-year-old thought killing them both was the only option 'Mr Gibbs opened the case with fairness and compassion, indicating your wife still loves you dearly and doesn't want you to go to prison.' The court heard that Mrs Shipp is now living separately in a housing association premises. Michael Garvey, mitigating, said: 'It's a sad case and until then he had led an entirely blameless life. 'With the benefit of clarity and hindsight he's able to say how much he regrets what he did. 'He's been extremely foolish in his financial dealings and made a terrible error in how he sought to deal with his problems and it's inflicted a burden on his wife which she shouldn't have had to put up with.' As the couple left the court together Mrs Shipp was asked if she forgave her husband. She replied: 'I'm not sure, I'll have to think about that.' Before retiring to Leicestershire, Shipp ran a successful dental practice in Poole, Dorset. Former neighbours of the couple, who lived in a £200,000 four-bedroom detached house in Barons Close, Kirby Muxloe, Leics., described them as 'lovely.' One neighbour said: 'You wouldn't believe anything was wrong between them, they were lovely. 'I often saw her outside and she always seemed to be smiling. I think they had a happy marriage but it just goes to show, appearances can be deceptive. 'I think he was involved with a homeless charity. On the surface they appeared nice, normal and devoted. 'In many ways you have to feel sorry for him that he got so low he thought the only solution was to kill himself and his wife. Thank God he stopped in time.' Share what you think The comments below have not been moderated. The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline. By posting your comment you agree to our house rules . Copy link to paste in your message Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday Metro Media Group