Match facts February 7, 2016 Start time 1330 local (1130 GMT) Dinesh Chandimal will hope for some runs to redeem what has been a disastrous tour so far Getty Images/Sportsfile Big Picture It has got to that point in the series where the dominant side is starting to wonder if its opposition will ever turn up. "Have Sri Lanka even sent a team?" was one of the questions asked when debating a likely XI to represent the visitors in Cape Town as they seek to avoid a whitewash. Though Sri Lanka's victory in the T20 series took place less than two weeks ago, it has been forgotten after three under-par ODI performances, where the batting has taken a beating. They have yet to total over 200 and have only two half-centuries in the series. South Africa have put on three fifties and two hundreds and have topped 300 on the only occasion they batted first. The gulf between the sides is obvious and Sri Lanka appear some way from closing it. Still, they have remained fairly positive with coach Graham Ford heartened by the talent in his squad, although he admitted a lot of work needs to be done. Niroshan Dickwella stressed the importance of the team taking lessons from this trip as they build for the future. For South Africa, that future is as bright as they could hope for. They have few complaints despite losing two members of their original squad, Lungi Ngidi and David Miller, to injury. Despite a heavy schedule - South Africa leave for New Zealand on Saturday, the day after the fifth ODI - they have chosen not to make any additions to the outfit, even for experimentation's sake, and are putting the players through their paces in preparation for the Champions Trophy. Form guide South Africa : WWWWW (last five completed matches, most recent first) Sri Lanka : LLLWW In the spotlight After coming into the XI for the injured Miller, Farhaan Behardien did not get the opportunity to bat at the Wanderers and will be keen to show what he can do ahead of sterner challenges in New Zealand and England. Despite long being underrated, Behardien has become an important part of South Africa's bench strength, so much so that he stood in as captain in the T20s. He enjoyed prolific form for his franchise, Titans, in the domestic T20 competition and finished as the third-highest run-scorer , with 352 runs at an average of 117.33 and a strike rate of 188.23, and quality performances under pressure. At the other end of the spectrum is Dinesh Chandimal , Sri Lanka's senior-most batsman, who has not scored a fifty in any format on this South African tour. Chandimal averages 16.36 from 12 innings and has been particularly careless with his wicket. He has squandered several starts and not set an example for the younger crop. He has two matches to show the worth of his seniority and put right what has become a dismal tour. South Africa could give Tabraiz Shamsi an opportunity Getty Images Team news After Dwaine Pretorius' Man-of-the-Match performance in Johannesburg, South Africa will need to choose their allrounders carefully. Chris Morris and Wayne Parnell could find themselves competing for one spot. South Africa may also want to use this match to have a look at what Tabraiz Shamsi can offer but are unlikely to have space for two spinners in the XI which could mean Imran Tahir is rested. South Africa: 1 Quinton de Kock (wk), 2 Hashim Amla, 3 Faf du Plessis, 4 AB de Villiers (capt), 5 JP Duminy, 6 Farhaan Behardien, 7 Chris Morris/Wayne Parnell, 8 Dwaine Pretorius, 9 Andile Phehlukwayo, 10 Kagiso Rabada, 11 Imran Tahir/Tabraiz Shamsi Sri Lanka don't have too many options when it comes to trying to find a winning combination and will have to rely on familiar faces to change their fortunes. Dhananjaya de Silva, who has a top score of 28 in the limited-overs' matches, may lose his place to Chathuranga de Silva in an attempt to shake things up. Sri Lanka: 1 Niroshan Dickwella 2 Upul Tharanga (capt), 3 Kusal Mendis, 4 Dinesh Chandimal (wk), 5 Asela Gunaratne, 6 Dhananjaya de Silva/Chathuranga de Silva, 7 Sachith Pathirana, 8 Lahiru Madushanka, 9 Suranga Lakmal, 10 Lahiru Kumara, 11 Lakshan Sandakan Pitch and conditions Batting first at Newlands is key to success, especially in day-night matches in which 22 of the 28 ODIs have been won by the side that sets a target. That makes the toss more crucial than the conditions, although a decent batting strip is expected. The weather is forecast to be warm and windy. Stats and trivia South Africa need to win both remaining matches in the series to overtake Australia at the top of the ODI rankings. Sri Lanka have lost their last six bilateral ODI series against Test-playing oppositions: to New Zealand (twice), Australia, England, South Africa and Pakistan. South Africa have won 12 of their last 14 ODIs at Newlands , dating back to 2004. The only two times they have lost in that time have been to subcontinental sides, India and Pakistan in 2011 and 2013 respectively. Quotes "We are a squad of players and whoever gets an opportunity, that's an honour in itself and a great opportunity to showcase their talents. You look at Dwaine Pretorius in the last game, getting a Man-of-the-Match performance. That's what we are about. The guys that get opportunities must be able to put in performances and they have done that." JP Duminy plays down suggestion that South Africa will rest senior players now that the series is won. Firdose Moonda is ESPNcricinfo's South Africa correspondent @kanihla1990 Chandimal should be dropped, I agree but replace him with an another failure. the guy who averages 26 for the guy who averages 34. haha. Sri lanka have better players other than kusal perera. And your name says all about you. Sri lacks a wicket keeper batsman and a quality all-rounder. I will gladly export Rahim and Shakib to Sri Lanka. @MID_ON: Be that way if you like. This isn't about that. I'm talking about how badly (or not) the system handicaps the team in the ODI context. Srilanka has nothing to lose now .I hope that Srilanka will put up a brave fight in next few games . Chandimal will be the person to watch. He is due for a big score. Ive asked this question time and time again... Firdose why do you insist on naming parnell as an allrounder wen hes done absolutely nothing in Proteas colours batting wise in any format to deserve that position?? And then to bat 7 above Pretorious! Pick him as a bowler only and please dont quote the Quota filled SA 20/20 comp as proof even if he opened the batting! Thats hit and miss in a weakened compitition. @ProteaFire786 : Just gotta get over the line once and it will be a weight off your shoulders. Many more will follow, quickly too. Quota or not Proteas has more depth in one franchise than the whole New Zealand put together. Sri Lanka will sneak a win here SA fans-honest question here. Can SA win the Champions Trophy with the colo(u)r quota? What does the 'best XI' versus the 'quota XI' look like? Will the slog cricket squad for the white ball games in NZ have a group of guys in it that won't be there for the tests or will an expanded squad come down under to allow lots of shuffling? People can bash SL all they want but once they go back to play at home they will be champi9ns again. No need to read too much into away losses nowadays. @kanihla1990 Chandimal should be dropped, I agree but replace him with an another failure. the guy who averages 26 for the guy who averages 34. haha. Sri lanka have better players other than kusal perera. And your name says all about you. Sri lacks a wicket keeper batsman and a quality all-rounder. I will gladly export Rahim and Shakib to Sri Lanka. @MID_ON: Be that way if you like. This isn't about that. I'm talking about how badly (or not) the system handicaps the team in the ODI context. Srilanka has nothing to lose now .I hope that Srilanka will put up a brave fight in next few games . Chandimal will be the person to watch. He is due for a big score. Ive asked this question time and time again... Firdose why do you insist on naming parnell as an allrounder wen hes done absolutely nothing in Proteas colours batting wise in any format to deserve that position?? And then to bat 7 above Pretorious! Pick him as a bowler only and please dont quote the Quota filled SA 20/20 comp as proof even if he opened the batting! Thats hit and miss in a weakened compitition. @ProteaFire786 : Just gotta get over the line once and it will be a weight off your shoulders. Many more will follow, quickly too. Quota or not Proteas has more depth in one franchise than the whole New Zealand put together. Sri Lanka will sneak a win here SA fans-honest question here. Can SA win the Champions Trophy with the colo(u)r quota? What does the 'best XI' versus the 'quota XI' look like? Will the slog cricket squad for the white ball games in NZ have a group of guys in it that won't be there for the tests or will an expanded squad come down under to allow lots of shuffling? People can bash SL all they want but once they go back to play at home they will be champi9ns again. No need to read too much into away losses nowadays. at least can you dream that chandi bandi will score 100 runs and will win the match... chandi bandi knows about him self as utter mess but his fans are in a dream ... oh god, I thought the series was over ! Lahiru kumara and dickwella are the only positives in this tournament.lahiru kumara can be a dangerous bawler in the future.dick wella played a matured inning,specially after 40.kept scoreboard live,just like sangakkara did.need few more faces to fill middle order to make the complete and competitive team. If chandimal and dhananjaya silva is playing,win is guaranteed.....for SA.But they are not in Australia tour. @SLMASTER:sanga did not struggle in sa.Got a hundred in durbun test and hundred in johnburg ODI 2011/12tour. Can u compare greate sanga with chandimal.? In reality SL had already hit the rock bottom before heading to this series vs world's 2nd ranked SA in their own den, having lost last six bilateral ODI series against Test-playing oppositions: to New Zealand (twice), Australia, England, South Africa and Pakistan as the article points out. Therefore, the only way remains to be seen is upward movement overnight miracles should not be expected from this newly formed unit. There are certain positives to be taken from this series. SL had a huge problem finding a solid opening combination since SL's MOST productive Opening combination Dilshan/Tharanga (2009-2013: 71 innings/ 3,159 runs/ 282 Highest/45.12 Average/9 x100+ 13x 50+) in ODis (World's 9th ranked ever best) was totally disrupted in mid 2013 by virtually removing UT from the scene for 3 yrs (unfortunately missing his services in 2015 WC as well). Ludicrously due to a brief lean patch common to any, UT was dumped without allowing exposure until now preferring total failures , @INSIDEHEDGE, Lol I don't think it makes a difference really. Whether we go in as favourites, underdogs, dark horses and even he win all our games until the knockout (we've been in every situation), there remains a mental block that causes them to underperform....the Tragedy of being a Protea fan...hopefully we turn it around soon @cricfan33638999: Do you even know ODIs cricket has been changed alot in last couple years?? Players who played same cricket in Sanath ,Mahela time period there is hardly a player has 50+ odi Average. Do even you notice how many players Average around 50 in modern game with more than 85 Strike rate?? Chandimal is not going to compete with mahela or sanath. He has to compete with players like kohli,Root,Williamson weather you like it or not. If he cannot , Someone else will have to if SL want to be competitive odi side again. Chandimal showed his anger on tharanga getting captaincy. I never expected that from chandimal,but I was wrong. Lankans are becoming unpredictable - Lions at home and timids abroad - meekly submitting without putting up a proper fight !! The likes of Jayawardane and Jayasurya can still be picked on merit in this ordinary side !!! so all are blaming SL..they can't play,they can't survive 50 overs,tnhey can't they can't ect....so mates..think they can bounce back anytime..SA consistently winning matches..but they never winning a single big trophy..but SL won that more..that's some of issue of selectors select the correct person..but they try to experiment some new faces..they are suitable..so they make a good side to champions trophy..that's very big trouble to others..don't underestimate them....history say it... 5-0 drubbing like we did Aus will be the longest consecutive matches won by RSA in odi (14). And the number one ranked will be cherry on top. The huge elephant in the room though remains that second champions trophy. As we haven't won nun since Tomorrow Chandimal will get 18 runs, sri lanka will get 190. this team will never beat any side Chandimal and others are not the problem. All great players including SL ones (i.e. Sanga etc.) struggled in SA. So, let's not judge now. Support the team when they are down. This is a good experience for them and it could be the catalyst. Please, no chandimal again......... How many of these six bilateral ODI losses has Graham Ford overseen? And a chairman of selectors who shows up in the middle of a tour and hangs around the sanctity of the dressing room doesn't help even if he was a respected former player. I wonder if privately SA would rather go into the Champions Trophy NOT as the #1 ranked team. If they make the top spot, it will be mentioned many a times leading into the tournament. Given their big tournament history, they could do with flying in below the radar. SL will play well in the upcoming matches SL tour of Aus -3t20s. , Ban tour of SL -2t20s 3odis 2tests , Ind tour of SL -3tests 5odis 1t20 , Zim tour of SL -2tests 3odis 2t20s , SL tour of uae -3tests 5odis 2 t20s So all those cricket will be play in Asia and SL wil perform well in those games. Come on SL u can do it CRICFAN33638999 , Its not about the average ,its about how he throws away his wicket (Last game was a good example of that ) its true that Sanath ,Mahela had some trouble staring their innings but once in they never thrown their wickets away , no batsman in world cricket would have played shot like that Chandimal did in the last ODI ( considering the situation ) Previous match, 60 runs 1st wicket stand was seen after a long while for SL.That was the ONLY aspect outclassed SA performances in the whole match. At the end AB said, if SL had scored 200+, it would have been tough going for them as well, on that deck somewhat different from usual Wanderers decks producing 300+ (of course if SL fielders had backed up taking catches). The commentators shared the same view. Tharanga should try to extend his inning rather than trying to take Arial route prematurely, since SL's weak middle-order crumbled in both Odis 10-12 ovs remained unused at the end, despite good upfront starts. In my view, as long as 5+ runs per over is maintained, they (UT/ND) shouldn't open out before 20th over, unless the RRR creeps above 7 in chasing a 300+ total. As seen from both Odis, that is the only way to hope a total above 250 V SA in their den, with current middle order batters without Mathews. At least SL found the Solution for long needed solid Openers in UT/ND combo Totally agreed with CRICFAN76443627.. can't expect a Virat kohli or a joe root from Chandimal or Kusal mendis.. not the same man,same facilities,same coaches and even same mindset and abilities... Chandimal currently has a average of 33 .. every Srilankan will agree with me if i name Sanath and Mahela as all time greats for SL.. i may ask people who blaming chandimal, please look at Sanath's and Mahela's averages in thier careers.just 33-.. As i see, 10th over is too early for Openers Tharanga/ND to try the long handle risking wicket. Especially when, the required run rate is well under control, as seen in 2nd odi. UT should not have rushed to seek Arial route to maximize the runs, when it was not necessary. I think staying there at the wicket trying to build another 50+ stand with Mendis should have been the way to go at that stage. This is how SA's Du Plessis built his inning stemming the core mostly limited to singles twos for 22 overs, in his vital 117 stand with Miller in 2nd odi. Du Plessis had scored just 7 boundaries in his entire 120 ball ing, but Tharanga had scored 5 x 4s inside the 30 balls he faced. It shows the rush was too rapid too early, to play an anchor role. Unused 12 overs left to be wasted at the end in that odi too. Therefore, the batters settled with good starts should stay there without compromising their wickets until at least in first 20 overs maintaining a 5+ run rate 7 RRR in chase. Expecting de Kock to fire in this match. After surprising failures against this SL bowling, he is due for a big one. Sadly, there is no hope for SL as none of their top order batsmen have put up their hand and willing to fight. This sri lankans are here for a holiday playing the odd game. Please play better. Wickets are flat but still you can't compete. Chandimal should be dropped and kept out. He has been playing international cricket for over 7 years now. He has never been consistent or reliable. Wasted opportunity that should have gone to some one that SL could have relied on right now. If he cannot support the team when it is needed, there is not use for such him in the future. Chandimal is the worst player in Sri Lankan team.slc should drop chandimal and bring back kusal janith. @all the people who wants to see Chandimal being dropped for ODI, Look at these figures from 2003 World cup; "9 matches, 7 inn, 21 Runs , avg 3.00, SR 36.2". Who had these figures? It is none other than one of the all-time greats Mahela Jayawardena. He was without a half century for 17 matches before 2007 world cup. Luckily for MJ, for Sri Lanka Cricket and also for World Cricket, there was not much internet facilities and many people in SL were not able to access ESPN Cricinfo at that time. Otherwise there would not have been an MJ after 2003. We all know what he has done after that. Even the greatest players are going on bad patches time to time. "Form is Temporary and Class is Permanent". Same is going for Chandimal as well. Why these "Book Cricket Pundits" in Sri Lanka want to see Chandimal being dropped? After Dwaine Pretorius' Man-of-the-Match performance in Johannesburg, South Africa will need to choose their allrounders carefully. Chris Morris and Wayne Parnell could find themselves competing for one spot. Does this mean phehlukwayo's place is permanent in the 11 despite both morris and pretorious being better than him?for colour quota? Come on South Africa. Bat first and be the first team to put on 500 in an ODI. de Villiers has the perfect opportunity to make the first triple century. Atleast it ll be a treat to watch. Another dissapointing team prediction by the author. According to her opinion if SL replaces Dhananjaya with Chaturanga, their team composition will be 4 batsmen, 3 bowlers and 4 all rounders. This is highly unlikely to happen and I think they'll look to strengthen their batting by inserting Weerakkodi in place of one of the all rounders i'm not against removing chandimal at this moment. only thing i can understand is why did not we lose in england and australian tours as bad as this only because chandimals innings. although we lost almost all their was something to watch. so replacing him will not do any difference to the current situation. coach Graham Ford heartened by the talent in his squad I don't quite think that making the same mistakes over over is exactly a sign of talent. Looks like the good coach is living in the same dream world as the first commenter Dhawala05. Dhawala05 as for SA pls rest KG Chandimal has to sit this out period. Might as well play Weerakkody. We flew him out for just one game so far. SL cricket at least found 4 players in this tour for long term
1. Dickwella 2 . Kusal Mendis 3. Lahiru Kumara and sandakan. Sachithra also good...Chandimal and Dananjaya are not good at all. they both can't hit ball over the infield regularly. It makes them frustrated and the team as well. Both spent ample of time in the crease and could not capitalize. Please give Rabada some rest. I know that harms the numbers a little (Ngidi got injured unfortunately) but the guy has been playing a lot. I am sure SA don't want to lose him to an injury at a critical time like the Eng tour or the Australian home series. I think SL should accept the fact SA is tough to beat in SA and forget the serious. Drastic decisions should not be made based on performances in SA. Everyone struggled as such. One mistake is rebuilding team should not have tour SA. Dhawala05 You are challenging a team that has chased 400+ to chase 300. Don't kid yourself. @Dhawal : ICC can actually try this. They need to let Sri Lanka bat their 50 overs no matter how many times they get bowled out. Then the other team needs to case down the target in 20 overs! Still i dont see this SL team beating even UAE at the current form! Lol. Out of jokes SL. Try to Bat 50 overs! Dont worry about the result just bat 50 overs Chandimal? Again?? Dont drop De silva as thats the future of SL cricket. Drop Chandimal and give the wicketkeeping duties to Dickwella @dhawala in ur dreams.South African top 5 is awesome.And sri lankan giving one or two dropp catches for them anyway UT will be coming showing he worth, Lets Chandi come down ... he will score some runs as well, this all happens only if we bat first. Who is the SL captain..Chandimal or Tharange..or both are captains?As far as I know..Tharanga is the captain.. Anyway..now time to give chance for Sadun..he can deadly AB...Let him open or bat at number 4...Coz he batted mostly at number 4 in school but recently being opener...Let him play..Dhanjaya should be left out... meantime..Bring vikum instead of Sachith.. I hope Tharanga will get a 100 tomorrow.. leave out Berhardien and play both Miller and Parnell. (never thought I would say to play Parnell)
and while Tahir is amazing, rest him and let Shamsi get a game in to get a feel of the pressure.
I am also not opposed to resting KG, he does look mentally exhausted due to the responsibility thust upon him. If Chandimal is out of from then he would struggled to get bat on ball ,but what we have seen so far is throwing away his wicket by (purposely) playing ball in the air . I think he doesnt want to be in the team anymore SL will score 300 and win the match SA are u ready for a shocking defeat??? No featured comments at the moment. SL will score 300 and win the match SA are u ready for a shocking defeat??? If Chandimal is out of from then he would struggled to get bat on ball ,but what we have seen so far is throwing away his wicket by (purposely) playing ball in the air . I think he doesnt want to be in the team anymore leave out Berhardien and play both Miller and Parnell. (never thought I would say to play Parnell)
and while Tahir is amazing, rest him and let Shamsi get a game in to get a feel of the pressure.
I am also not opposed to resting KG, he does look mentally exhausted due to the responsibility thust upon him. Who is the SL captain..Chandimal or Tharange..or both are captains?As far as I know..Tharanga is the captain.. Anyway..now time to give chance for Sadun..he can deadly AB...Let him open or bat at number 4...Coz he batted mostly at number 4 in school but recently being opener...Let him play..Dhanjaya should be left out... meantime..Bring vikum instead of Sachith.. I hope Tharanga will get a 100 tomorrow.. UT will be coming showing he worth, Lets Chandi come down ... he will score some runs as well, this all happens only if we bat first. @dhawala in ur dreams.South African top 5 is awesome.And sri lankan giving one or two dropp catches for them anyway Chandimal? Again?? Dont drop De silva as thats the future of SL cricket. Drop Chandimal and give the wicketkeeping duties to Dickwella @Dhawal : ICC can actually try this. They need to let Sri Lanka bat their 50 overs no matter how many times they get bowled out. Then the other team needs to case down the target in 20 overs! Still i dont see this SL team beating even UAE at the current form! Lol. Out of jokes SL. Try to Bat 50 overs! Dont worry about the result just bat 50 overs Dhawala05 You are challenging a team that has chased 400+ to chase 300. Don't kid yourself. I think SL should accept the fact SA is tough to beat in SA and forget the serious. Drastic decisions should not be made based on performances in SA. Everyone struggled as such. One mistake is rebuilding team should not have tour SA.