Play 01:57 Dobell: Cook served England with distinction Alastair Cook 's decision to resign from the England captaincy stemmed from his reservations about "how much he had left in the tank", according to Andrew Strauss, England's director of cricket, who says that the ECB expects to be able to name his successor within a fortnight, ahead of the one-day squad's departure for the Caribbean on February 22. Speaking at Lord's on the day it was confirmed that Cook, 32, would be standing down from the captaincy after a record 59 Tests in charge, Strauss praised the considered manner in which his former opening partner had reached his decision. The timing of Cook's announcement leaves his successor - almost certainly Joe Root - a full four months of preparation before England's next Test series against South Africa in July. "This wasn't one of those situations when it was right for me to persuade him to carry on," Strauss, from whom Cook inherited the captaincy back in 2012, told Sky Sports at Lord's. "I've been there myself. You either know if you have got it in you to carry on, or, deep down, you know it's time to step aside. "He did it the right way. He didn't jump to conclusions, he allowed the dust to settle after the India tour, he took some time to speak to the people closest to him, whom he trusted. I support and understand that decision." Cook's resignation had been on the cards ever since the tour of India in December, which finished with back-to-back innings defeat for a dispiriting 4-0 scoreline. As he had indicated at the time, Cook chose not to make a snap decision, but instead took the opportunity to take stock before informing Strauss of his intentions when the pair met up in January. "When the India tour finished, Alastair said to everyone that he'd sit down with me and talk things through," Strauss said, "both the learnings from the India tour and what the England team could do to get better, but also his own position. "We met up in January and I was interested to see how he had fared in India. I know how draining the England captaincy can be, especially on a long tour away from home when you are on the wrong end of the result. "So we had a conversation around that, and it was pretty clear that Alastair knew how much drive, determination and energy was going to be required of the England captain in the next 12 months or so. "He had some thoughts and reservations about how much he had left in the tank as England's longest-serving Test captain, and it was right that we didn't jump to conclusions, and let the dust settle. I allowed him to go away and think further. But, over the last ten days or so, it was clear his mind was made up." Andrew Strauss discusses Alastair Cook's decision to stand down as England captain Getty Images Despite the speculation that has surrounded the role, Strauss insisted that the search for Cook's successor would only now begin in earnest. "There is a process to go through," he said. "It would have been entirely wrong for me to have spoken to other players about the captaincy before Alastair stepped down, and especially while two important white-ball series were going on in India. "Now's the chance for myself and selectors, and the coach, to have conversations amongst ourselves and some players in the England environment, to get an understanding of who the right person is, what their philosophy is, and how they intent to take the team forward, so that when we come to announce the new captain, we are sure he's the right man." Although Root is the outstanding candidate to inherit Cook's role, his lack of captaincy experience is a justifiable concern - he has led in only four matches to date in his first-class career. Strauss, however, played down that aspect of his candidature. "That is the reality in this day and age," he said. "It's very hard for England players to get a great deal of county captaincy experience. But on one level there's only so much you can do to prepare yourself. I think playing in the set-up for a number of years and understanding the demands is more important. "[Cook's decision] gives the new captain a huge amount of time to get used to the idea and have conversations about off-the-field stuff with the coaches and support staff, so that when he steps on the field for the first time as England captain in July, a lot of that stuff will already be taken care of." He added: "Joe has done a very good job as vice-captain. He's matured a lot over the last two years and there is absolutely no reason he won't be one of the strong candidates." For the time being, however, Strauss preferred to focus on Cook's own contribution as England captain, which included 24 Test wins, two Ashes victories, and memorable series wins in India and South Africa. "I honestly believe he deserves to be looked upon as one of England's great captains," Strauss said. "I also think the great measure of a leader is what the people who played with you and under you feel about you. I'm certain that there isn't a single player in that dressing room right now who doesn't think Alastair has done an unbelievable job as England captain. "More than anything, he has had that personal touch. He has shown empathy for people and he's understood just how difficult it can be to play for England. He's had the time and inclination to help people through that. As he walks away he can do so with his head held exceptionally high knowing he gave absolutely everything to the role. "His record stands for itself as England's longest serving captain and the longest serving one day captain as well. To combine that longevity with his individual performances is a testament to his drive and character. He was certainly never in it for personal glory." Andrew Miller is UK editor of ESPNcricinfo. @miller_cricket If Cook plays for another 4 years he will easily eat up the remaining 4thousand runs and will stand alone as test cricket's all time run scorer. @MYSTERYBOWLER - Do you have a SLA that says, Eng can't talk of Oz and vice-versa? If not, stop cribbing. Accept, just as we did when we got defeated by Eng at home. And move on. Accept you've never been good enough to play cricket. When your strategy of the school is wrong, what is the point of punishing students? It should be Strauss who should be punished and unceremoniously dismissed. His ludicrous ideas are the main reason why England is struggling. Andy Flower was where it started who saw only short term benefits AND yet applied them. I think it is time ECB needs to let go off Strauss. Of course it will be Root. But what the appointment does to his form is another matter. You get a lot of strange comments from Indian fans on these boards when talking about other countries, but East_West is surely in a class of his own! Cook's resignation is quite clearly his choice for personal reasons, nothing to do with not being given more time . As for his bizarre comments on ODI's, Cook played 92 ODI's for England, many as captain, and he was finally relieved of that role when the ECB woke up to the fact that he was neither an ODI batsman nor captain. And then to suggest that Cook is the leading cricketing captain of his generation is incomprehensible. Great batsman yes, but very mediocre captain and hardly comparable with Misbah, Dhoni, Clarke, Smith, Kohli....the list could go on, and on. I would let Hameed and Jennings open. Cook at 3. Might get 5 more years out of him . Hopefully he can be really selfish now. If not Root,then who? Stokes is an allrounder and though a great contributor to the efforts would be overloaded if captain,I think. Bairstow is keeper at present and it would be tough to combine the roles. Apart form giving Morgan a Test place back,I see little room for real debate over this matter. Broad? Would he want it? I think 95% certain to be Root, and why not,so long as it does not spoil that innate sense of fun! Cook, You Champion.hope many more runs to come Your way. A true captain, strong support always given by the players. The downfall of course is that after swan England haven´t had a halfway decent spinner and have struggled to find an opening partner for him. This cannot be blamed on Cook, he can only take the field with what resources they have available. As a opening batsmen he is up there with the very best of recent times, yes more conservative than a warner or a hayden, not so hoo haa as a G.Smith but he will leave a mark on the record books. All in all Well done Sir. Land of Karma is his Waterloo!! He Started his conquests here with the help of KP helped England win series in India. But life turned a full circle by his team losing 4-0 in what turned out to be his final series. England management were nice and let Cook decide. Cook was sensible too.... but honestly he was found wanting as a skipper and batting was stale. He took his decision now, and next 12 months will decide whether he can rediscover his hunger for runs. He lost six tests against India but won an impressive five overall If Cook plays for another 4 years he will easily eat up the remaining 4thousand runs and will stand alone as test cricket's all time run scorer. @MYSTERYBOWLER - Do you have a SLA that says, Eng can't talk of Oz and vice-versa? If not, stop cribbing. Accept, just as we did when we got defeated by Eng at home. And move on. Accept you've never been good enough to play cricket. When your strategy of the school is wrong, what is the point of punishing students? It should be Strauss who should be punished and unceremoniously dismissed. His ludicrous ideas are the main reason why England is struggling. Andy Flower was where it started who saw only short term benefits AND yet applied them. I think it is time ECB needs to let go off Strauss. Of course it will be Root. But what the appointment does to his form is another matter. You get a lot of strange comments from Indian fans on these boards when talking about other countries, but East_West is surely in a class of his own! Cook's resignation is quite clearly his choice for personal reasons, nothing to do with not being given more time . As for his bizarre comments on ODI's, Cook played 92 ODI's for England, many as captain, and he was finally relieved of that role when the ECB woke up to the fact that he was neither an ODI batsman nor captain. And then to suggest that Cook is the leading cricketing captain of his generation is incomprehensible. Great batsman yes, but very mediocre captain and hardly comparable with Misbah, Dhoni, Clarke, Smith, Kohli....the list could go on, and on. I would let Hameed and Jennings open. Cook at 3. Might get 5 more years out of him . Hopefully he can be really selfish now. If not Root,then who? Stokes is an allrounder and though a great contributor to the efforts would be overloaded if captain,I think. Bairstow is keeper at present and it would be tough to combine the roles. Apart form giving Morgan a Test place back,I see little room for real debate over this matter. Broad? Would he want it? I think 95% certain to be Root, and why not,so long as it does not spoil that innate sense of fun! Cook, You Champion.hope many more runs to come Your way. A true captain, strong support always given by the players. The downfall of course is that after swan England haven´t had a halfway decent spinner and have struggled to find an opening partner for him. This cannot be blamed on Cook, he can only take the field with what resources they have available. As a opening batsmen he is up there with the very best of recent times, yes more conservative than a warner or a hayden, not so hoo haa as a G.Smith but he will leave a mark on the record books. All in all Well done Sir. Land of Karma is his Waterloo!! He Started his conquests here with the help of KP helped England win series in India. But life turned a full circle by his team losing 4-0 in what turned out to be his final series. England management were nice and let Cook decide. Cook was sensible too.... but honestly he was found wanting as a skipper and batting was stale. He took his decision now, and next 12 months will decide whether he can rediscover his hunger for runs. He lost six tests against India but won an impressive five overall Brittorrent - Cook has the potential to be the greatest given his opportunity ro play alot of test matches, but you can't say he is the greatest when at least three recent opening batsmen - Warner, Smith, Hayden - have superior batting averages!?? So the stats do not confirm it ! Lost his mojo in recent times, right time to make way for a younger leader. Good luck Cook! Now he has to prove himself as a pure batsman. Will be interesting to see how that plays out. Right time for Joe Root to captain the side. He has played 53 test matches so far and 26 years of age now, its right for him to play as Captain for another 5 years. The other three players whom used to compare with him are Kohli, Smith Williamson are already become Captains for their Test Side. All four are mostly in the same age group between 26-28. Martin Crowe predicted these fab fours few years back itself that one day all four will captain their side. Though he is not present now, his words are become true. Hats off to you Sir !!! If Cook knew it was time to go, how come he didn't realise it was time to go 2 years ago? He may be a great batsmen, but only an average captain. I Respect Cooks decision it's the best for England and himself as a batsman with no added pressure should be able to chase Tendulkars test runs @ DUNGERBOB - i agree it's hard to judge a captaincy fairly....Cook was a natural leader in that he is so strong mentally but tactically i think he wasn't as good as Hussain or Vaughan who were both very streetwise. After Swann retired we really lacked any real threat in the sub continent which held us back. That had a much bigger impact than losing Pietersen The more I read about Cook's resignation, the more I start thinking more whether it was of his own volition or someone made him walk the plank. At 32 years old and still going strong Cook is the finest opening batsman the game has known, the stats confirm this. ENG played 17 test matches in 2016, 10 of those away from home.
Too many and too tiring for the players. Too many test matches played in empty stadiums.
I think it's time for ECB to scale back ICC commitments and develop club cricket in England and Wales , along the lines of IPL. We want to see our best players in England, not flogged to exhaustion in the ICC circus. Cook's been (and hopefully will continue to be) a fine batsman for England, but I'm not sure he was a great captain. Like Strauss he was attritional rather than inspired. Everyone assumes Root will be next, but I wonder whether he's the best choice as captain, given his lack of captaincy experience. Other possibles in terms of test shoe ins are: Broad (no - concentrate on his bowling and don't let him near reviews!), Anderson (too close to end of career), Moeen (only job he hasn't done!), Stokes (probably too fiery), Buttler (probably the best captain, but unsure of his test place), Bairstow (too much work?) or Woakes (who might be a good left field choice: I believe the Lions tour under his leadership was a happy one: big workload, though). The last T20 performance by the lads i.e. 8 for 8 with half of the line up in the test squad probably scared him out... :) Please make Broad test captain Gottaloverain dance.... Haha with Smith at least they were resigning halfway through the lost series, now with Faf theyre resigning before hes even landed on the shores! Cook is a great man and batsman but dont think hes cut out for all the roles of a skipper. Good luck to him for the rest of his career. Congrats to Cook on a pretty good tenure and good luck in the future. I find it extremely difficult to rate captains because they are all captives to the quality of players around them. I always thought Allan Border was exceptional but his w/l ratio is abysmal. Not his fault though. He did everything he could (and then some) with the cattle he had. Cook is the same of course. He comes across as being dour and perhaps a little unimaginative but is that the real story? Maybe he was simply following directions from the coach. I think it would take a dressing room insider to know the full story. He seems to have had the respect of his team mates though, and for a captain that's 90% of the battle, More than that, for me at least, it's one of the few reliable measures of a captains true worth. Raw stats alone, in the case of captains, are virtually worthless in my view. An Excellent captain over the years for England, A gentle man with great cricketing sens. It would be too early to handover the mantle to Joe Root. This man is terrific so let him play freely and keep away from extra burden. Stokes can be considered for the captain's post. Great ,insipidness captaincy against India. Maybe we can have KP back now!! It is time to Cook to go that is exact thing he did why there is so much of hue cry about this issue . Cook was not at all dynamic captain nor result oriented all along he was very very defensive captain that only backfired him the most otherwise why there was delay in declaration at Rajkot that resulted in draw otherwise the course of the match would have been something else as well as the series same thing was in BD. Why he was only keen on ashes why not other series and tactically not suited for results and mind set only for draw when that is case can you expect lead country certainly not let him go back to basics of playing competitive cricket . Without him also cricket can go on as well as England cricket also. A true gentleman of the game. As he is now relieved from captaincy duty so he should also consider to extent his one day stint. I say hats off to Mr. Alistair Cook. He has thought of his country far more than about himself and relinquished the position making it easier for selectors to plan the future. These are the hallmarks of a true gentleman, not just one who wears the best cloths and thus termed gentleman. I only wish that the present captain of Sri Lanka take a leaf from Alistair and allow selectors to decide on future captaincy. Just saying if people think Root will make the situation better, even with the strongest county team in the opposition Yorkshire; when he captained them Middlesex chased down 480 on the final day which many were calling impossible. That's the only example of Root's captaincy of which to go on, he has not captained in any other match so why the hell is he being considered for the national captaincy? I expect Root's first couple of years in captaincy are going to be known for Cook, Anderson and Broad surrounding him telling him what he needs to do but really except for his batting, Root looks like a laid back and fairly clueless guy at times and I don't want to see him become another gritty aggressive captain like Kohli or Smith. A bit disappointed. after Graeme Smith's record of 3 basil d oliviera trophies in England and 3 English captains careers ended I was looking forward to see if faf would continue the trend/tradition. Well done COOK! You coped well as captain, inspiring the players and fans alike, with many memorable 100's and away tour wins. I respect you for your self belief and hard work, stepping down because you felt your time had come. All the best of luck Cook in your test batting, I still hope you eclipse Sachin Tendulkar's test run total! Go for it Cook you know you can do it! Misbah should take lesson from cook I think ben stoke or buttler or moeen ali would be the right choice. Root should just focus on batting becuase he is the only premier batsman in the team. Great captains are leaving on time. Cook is a great man. I am an Indian fan. Hats off to Cook. A great player who captained within his limitations. He is an asset to the game. I hope he will flourish as a batsman in the next several years. At 32, he surely has a lot left to offer to his team and to the game. Best of luck, sir, and long may you prosper! Surprised by this news ... Doesnt seem right for England for Root .... Cook should have carried on as captain for another 12 months then it would have been the perfect time for Joe to take over the reigns ... But it can't be changed now... so I strongly feel ECB should look for a short term Solution ... Stuart Broad looks to be the best man to lead the team Right now because Root definitely needs more time Some great comments below like bringing Ian bell back or giving captaincy to Anderson, but England has to look for a long term captain not for next 1 year. Root is the best option. Really, this is the most disappointing thing to read. I am an Indian fan, but i just cannot understand such a caliber Cook is not given some more time! The most surprising thing is that he was never considered for One Day, whereas he has a better technique and composure (both on and off the field) than others in this format, but was never given a chance! I still feel that if he was selected for world cup team (when India was the host), he would have been tough to handle by indian team! England board never gave him a chance to play in One Days! May be the best cricketing captain of this generation! Kohli (a great talent) is not even close to the composure of Cook! For some reason, It just doesn't seem the right time for Root. maybe its because he has just become a father, maybe its because he has been out a lot recently showing a lack of composure. Maybe its because he doesn't seem to go on to score big tons which suggests a concentration issue, but it just doesn't seem right and yet apart from Hameed, I am not sure who is certain of a place apart from Stokes and Hameed. In three or four years time, I believe Hameed will prove to be the ideal test captain. He is totally dedicated to the five day format and will, I think captain England for a long time. He is such an intelligent cricketer In the meantime, I would give it Root or Bairstow and hope it works. Don't like the idea of resurrecting Bell. I disagree cook has been a horrible captain in all honesty the good results he got are due to the team around him not cos he is agood captain he was always quick to the safety net safety first approach which is bad to defensive to negative always declaring to late always quick to put fielders back on the boundary I fail to see how all that is good captaincy great batsmen no doubt but England's worst captain cos he wasn't prepared to gamble and take risks abit more gambling in India the result wouldn't have 4nil they prob would of still lost but not by 4nil so therefore great news for England hopefully abetter captain and it should free cook up to score a lot more runs for England and yes I still think Ian bell should be brought back to offer root some more support and to sure up the middle order abit Joe Root will be the next captain of england No prizes for guessing whom the selectors will be Rooting for now! Sad day for me and any real England fans. The guy was not a great captain but always gave it his all. The losses such as in India and Australia were simply down to England not being good enough. The snakes in the grass like Warne, KP and Piers Morgan tried to smear Cook's name but the cricketing world saw Cook for what he was. A nice bloke who tried his best and had as many bad days as good. When all said and done, he should be proud of leading his country for so long. He is a perfect representative of this country and someone who makes me proud to be English. If you're reading this Cooky, thank you brother. You're an outstanding bloke and a wonderful cricketer. I'm looking forward to many more hundreds for the Three Lions. Never thought Cook was the greatest captain but there really was no alternative before, so a good time to step down. However very glad to see him bat on, he is certainly up there with the best openers in the history of the game and really has the ability to play on and become the highest test run scorer of all time. Won't that upset the Indians... This may be the making of Root as a batsman, many players lift their game to a new level with the added responsibility of captaincy. If Exfactor44 thinks Ian Bell is captain of Worcester then maybe we can't take much note of his opinions! No surprise that Cook has had enough, he looked distracted and tired in India and in my view it's time his family came first. Root needs to be protected from the same levels of stress as inflicted on Cook by England's insane international calendar and he should only play Test cricket and the odd ODI. Good move by Cook. Only a few months to get it sorted however before trying to hold the ashes on the toughest tour of all for England. Captaincy could hurt Root's numbers or be the making of him just as it has been with the worlds best batsman Smudge Smith! Didnt Middlesex chase down 450 during Root's previous captaincy experiance? YJB for me or Mo EXFACTOR44 ON FEBRUARY 6, 2017, 18:15 GMT
Why not bring Ian Bell out of retirement? - he is captain of Worcester, ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ After that comment I suggest you steer well clear of Birmingham (and Worcerster) for the foreseeable future. Saying Bell is captain of Worcestershire is akin to calling Kohli captain of Pakistan. I ageee with exfactor44 about ian bell. Why not? He would also be able to shore up number 5 It is better for AC to hang on for SA series. England should look for stop-gap captain for SA series as at the end of SA series, based on history, England has to change captain anyway. Joe Root is the deserving candidate. He will learn a lot from Cook experience. Cook has been a great Captain . Tours to subcontinent is always tough. I don't think that if Root was the Captain on India tour the result would have been any different . He took upon himself the defeat and resigned on his own terms . Cook has lots of cricket left in him and I hope we shall see a different Cook . @Nutcutlet Pretty much agree with you RE. Root. He deserves the chance to lead if he wants it. You mention the potential issue with playing all formats but the likes of Kohli et al. have shown that it is possible to play in all formats. If anything, Root has it easier in that he doesn't have to worry about the SF captaincy like the others. The only possible cloud is that Root is a first-time father and only he will know how that may (or may not) affect his candidacy. We only have to look at Cook himself, who looked depressed having missed the birth of his second child recently, to see how important family time is; and let's face it, England's schedule this year is brutal. May be little weird..... Why not Jimmy Anderson for captaincy.. He has the experience. IMO, Root has not been named immediately, following Cook's resignation in order to lend a decent interval to proceedings. There cannot be any doubt that Joe Root will take over. He is the only batsman absolutely assured of his place, bar Cook and the young Hameed when next fit. The consultation process (aka 'conversations') to which Strauss alludes - is just to demonstrate that nothing is being done in haste and allow everyone to have a say... getting them on board, as it were. I have often thought that ideally the captain should bat at 3, 4, or 5 - not an opener. I hope that captaincy brings the best out of JR, the batsman. Too often in recent times he has gifted his wicket when well set. He is ideally suited to batting in Test cricket and not in LO cricket with its emphasis on scoring at a busy or frenetic rate. Part of his (and everyone else's) frustration in Tests has come from his seeming confusion in batting in the different formats; it's a curse of the age for the Test purist. Why not bring Ian Bell out of retirement? - he is captain of Worcester, has a lot of experience and has been in good form in 20 and 50 over - could coach Root into the Captaincy. I agree with the idea that Bairstow could make a good captain, but I still think Root is the standout candidate. DC75 - no need to burden Root with all three formats. Buttler can take Morgan's place when he goes, he's already shown he's up to the job. Root may be the obvious choice but I think Bairstow would be a better option than Root, may be I am wrong, but at least make Bairstow captain for ODI team and not burden JR with captaincy in all three formats once Morgan decides to leave. I guess a 0-2 or even a 1-3 loss would have given Cook an outside chance at continuation, but a 0-4 humiliation inclusive of innings defeats meant Cook would be at the mercy of Strauss and selection committee had he chosen to continue in the captaincy role. In that sense, I really appreciate and support the decision he took instead of it being taken out of his hands. Root has been touted about being the only choice for test captaincy, so I unless he indicated he isn't ready, I don't know what are the reasons for delay. He is the only batsman assured of his place in the side by default and has a thinking brain. Root for tests and Morgan for white ball cricket for the next one year unless the leaders themselves opt out for personal reasons or lack of form. No need for uncertainty. It is the right time to take good thinking No featured comments at the moment. It is the right time to take good thinking I guess a 0-2 or even a 1-3 loss would have given Cook an outside chance at continuation, but a 0-4 humiliation inclusive of innings defeats meant Cook would be at the mercy of Strauss and selection committee had he chosen to continue in the captaincy role. In that sense, I really appreciate and support the decision he took instead of it being taken out of his hands. Root has been touted about being the only choice for test captaincy, so I unless he indicated he isn't ready, I don't know what are the reasons for delay. He is the only batsman assured of his place in the side by default and has a thinking brain. Root for tests and Morgan for white ball cricket for the next one year unless the leaders themselves opt out for personal reasons or lack of form. No need for uncertainty. Root may be the obvious choice but I think Bairstow would be a better option than Root, may be I am wrong, but at least make Bairstow captain for ODI team and not burden JR with captaincy in all three formats once Morgan decides to leave. DC75 - no need to burden Root with all three formats. Buttler can take Morgan's place when he goes, he's already shown he's up to the job. Why not bring Ian Bell out of retirement? - he is captain of Worcester, has a lot of experience and has been in good form in 20 and 50 over - could coach Root into the Captaincy. I agree with the idea that Bairstow could make a good captain, but I still think Root is the standout candidate. IMO, Root has not been named immediately, following Cook's resignation in order to lend a decent interval to proceedings. There cannot be any doubt that Joe Root will take over. He is the only batsman absolutely assured of his place, bar Cook and the young Hameed when next fit. The consultation process (aka 'conversations') to which Strauss alludes - is just to demonstrate that nothing is being done in haste and allow everyone to have a say... getting them on board, as it were. I have often thought that ideally the captain should bat at 3, 4, or 5 - not an opener. I hope that captaincy brings the best out of JR, the batsman. Too often in recent times he has gifted his wicket when well set. He is ideally suited to batting in Test cricket and not in LO cricket with its emphasis on scoring at a busy or frenetic rate. Part of his (and everyone else's) frustration in Tests has come from his seeming confusion in batting in the different formats; it's a curse of the age for the Test purist. May be little weird..... Why not Jimmy Anderson for captaincy.. He has the experience. @Nutcutlet Pretty much agree with you RE. Root. He deserves the chance to lead if he wants it. You mention the potential issue with playing all formats but the likes of Kohli et al. have shown that it is possible to play in all formats. If anything, Root has it easier in that he doesn't have to worry about the SF captaincy like the others. The only possible cloud is that Root is a first-time father and only he will know how that may (or may not) affect his candidacy. We only have to look at Cook himself, who looked depressed having missed the birth of his second child recently, to see how important family time is; and let's face it, England's schedule this year is brutal. Joe Root is the deserving candidate. He will learn a lot from Cook experience. Cook has been a great Captain . Tours to subcontinent is always tough. I don't think that if Root was the Captain on India tour the result would have been any different . He took upon himself the defeat and resigned on his own terms . Cook has lots of cricket left in him and I hope we shall see a different Cook . It is better for AC to hang on for SA series. England should look for stop-gap captain for SA series as at the end of SA series, based on history, England has to change captain anyway.