Play 01:57 Dobell: Cook served England with distinction Alastair Cook has admitted that he had "been to the well" too many times to carry on as England captain, as he spelled out his reasons for stepping down after a record 59 Tests in charge. Speaking at Lord's for the first time since his resignation was confirmed, Cook admitted that he had been left drained by a tough winter campaign in the subcontinent, which culminated in five Test defeats in England's last six matches, including a maiden Test defeat against Bangladesh and a 4-0 series loss to India. "It was an incredibly tough decision to make," Cook told Sky Sports. "I've loved every minute as England captain, but it's a job you have to commit 100% to, and there've been certain times throughout my four or five years in the job when I've been to the well and dug pretty deep. "And coming back from India, the way I felt then, I didn't think I had it in me to do it again, because this isn't a job where you can operate at 95%. "When I looked in that mirror, I felt it was time. It was sad in one way, because I've loved the honour and prestige of all of it. I've been leading some great men and had some great moments as England captain, but I do think it's the right time for me and for the team." Cook's career included some notable high points, not least his maiden series as full-time captain in 2012-13, when he led England to a stunning 2-1 series win in India, and last year's away win in South Africa. But the low moments were particularly bruising, not least the Ashes whitewash in 2013-14, which presaged the most testing period of his tenure - the sacking of Kevin Pietersen ahead of the 2014 home season. Cook was present at the ECB meeting that signalled the end of Pietersen's England career, and he bore the brunt of much of the fall-out for the rest of that summer. "I think we all have regrets over how it was handled," he admitted. "I was part of that decision, I wasn't the be-all-and-end-all of it, but what followed was part of the responsibility I had as England captain. "The fallout wasn't great for English cricket, we were in the headlines for the wrong reasons, especially when our job as players is to promote the game as best we can, so it was not the best six months. But things have moved on, and since Andrew Strauss has come in [as England director], he's done a great job and made it clear that the side has moved on." While insisting that his tenure wasn't "all doom and gloom", Cook did single out England's supporters for particular gratitude, not least those who gave him an ovation at the Ageas Bowl during the 2014 home series against India, when Cook was enduring some of the worst batting form of his career. "I'll never forget Southampton, the warmth I had there in 2014," he said. "That kept me going, and of course my family and friends who mean the world to me and stuck with me through the tough times." Asked if he would have any advice for his younger self, or for that matter the player who is appointed to succeed him, Cook - a famously stubborn individual - was revealingly candid. "The advice I needed was to make sure you don't always do it your way," he said. "There are a lot of great people out there who watch a lot of cricket who know probably more than you do. So use that advice and be open to it. Ultimately you have to make the decision out there yourself, but use as much as you can. A lot of people want you to do well, because people love seeing England win games of cricket. "It is a challenging job, you don't know what will be thrown at you at certain times. But I have loved it, and that is what has made the decision quite hard, because I knew what I was giving away. I look forward to the next part of my career, supporting the next guy as best I can, and hopefully scoring some runs as well and being part of England's success." Andrew Miller is UK editor of ESPNcricinfo. @miller_cricket I can imagine that he may well be looking oard a lot to the season ahead,knowing he has done his bit and he can just relax in the field and not have to work out the fielding positions and bowling changes. I like what he said about not being too dependant on one's own choices but being able to takeon good advice. Root should be okay and pretty upbeat as his successor. The point about a lot of people wanting the side to do well is an understatement. That loss in India was ghastly beyond measure, a gloom lifted mercifully by the ODI series. When Cook came to India, for the 1st time, as a 'wide-eyed-bushy-tailed' young man, ground India's bowlers to the ground, over after over, I, who had followed English cricket for many decades, was truly impressed. He was one of those who knew his limitations very well, but also knew how to harness his strengths, far better than what they really and normally could have resulted in. His commitment and silent deployment of his leadership wasn't fully recognized. Instead his unwitting involvement in the sorry KP saga tarnished the shine a bit more than what his role in that demanded, in my humble view. He, as Captain Cook, sailed his boat n' crew with utmost dignity, both in the turbulent and very calm waters. Though he, as the captain, along with the KP magic, and Swan Monty carrying coal to Newcastle (India), beat my team; as an Indian with genuine regards for a good dignified cricketer like Cook stand up salute at this critical point in his great career. Respects. Jose. Ben Stokes - a terrific talent - is still coming to terms with controlling his own behaviour and temper, Cricinfofan, 44*****102! He would likely to be a diplomatic disaster if given the captaincy. Here's a thought (open to debate, as ever!): the very best captains (really the very best!), like Mike Brearley, the late Richie Benaud and perhaps above all, the late Sir Frank Worrell, did not have outsized egos. Outsized egos make flawed captains! Ben Stokes has a massive ego (like Beefy or KP!) - and good luck to him; it enables him to scale heights not available to those who do not possess that inner arrogance and that reservoir of sustained aggression that makes the great individual sportsman - but such players are never captaincy material! He wanst natural but he had some teriffic players at disposal. The line up had Trott, Bell, KP, Prior, Swann, Monty, Jimmy, Board and that made his job a lot easier. He owes the India victory to KP, Swann and Monty. Although he scored a 100 in that Mumbai test he was lucky to get away with no Drs, not his fault though. Also his come back to form vs India was also helped by some gaffas in the field. Overall an ok but unibspiring captain. He did the job admirably but sone of his comments in the last series left bad taste! It was un-Cook like press conferences. The best captains, from Benaud to Brearley to Vaughan, all seem to enjoy their work and revel in the role. It always seemed to be a big puzzle and struggle for Cook. Not his fault though - he was thrust into and retained in an unsuited position due to the prevailing belief of 'there's no-one else' and maybe that was correct. Cook did the right thing and England will reap the benefits of his batting and having a more attacking captain like Root or maybe and I'm surprised no one has mentioned his name Stokes I can imagine that he may well be looking oard a lot to the season ahead,knowing he has done his bit and he can just relax in the field and not have to work out the fielding positions and bowling changes. I like what he said about not being too dependant on one's own choices but being able to takeon good advice. Root should be okay and pretty upbeat as his successor. The point about a lot of people wanting the side to do well is an understatement. That loss in India was ghastly beyond measure, a gloom lifted mercifully by the ODI series. When Cook came to India, for the 1st time, as a 'wide-eyed-bushy-tailed' young man, ground India's bowlers to the ground, over after over, I, who had followed English cricket for many decades, was truly impressed. He was one of those who knew his limitations very well, but also knew how to harness his strengths, far better than what they really and normally could have resulted in. His commitment and silent deployment of his leadership wasn't fully recognized. Instead his unwitting involvement in the sorry KP saga tarnished the shine a bit more than what his role in that demanded, in my humble view. He, as Captain Cook, sailed his boat n' crew with utmost dignity, both in the turbulent and very calm waters. Though he, as the captain, along with the KP magic, and Swan Monty carrying coal to Newcastle (India), beat my team; as an Indian with genuine regards for a good dignified cricketer like Cook stand up salute at this critical point in his great career. Respects. Jose. Ben Stokes - a terrific talent - is still coming to terms with controlling his own behaviour and temper, Cricinfofan, 44*****102! He would likely to be a diplomatic disaster if given the captaincy. Here's a thought (open to debate, as ever!): the very best captains (really the very best!), like Mike Brearley, the late Richie Benaud and perhaps above all, the late Sir Frank Worrell, did not have outsized egos. Outsized egos make flawed captains! Ben Stokes has a massive ego (like Beefy or KP!) - and good luck to him; it enables him to scale heights not available to those who do not possess that inner arrogance and that reservoir of sustained aggression that makes the great individual sportsman - but such players are never captaincy material! He wanst natural but he had some teriffic players at disposal. The line up had Trott, Bell, KP, Prior, Swann, Monty, Jimmy, Board and that made his job a lot easier. He owes the India victory to KP, Swann and Monty. Although he scored a 100 in that Mumbai test he was lucky to get away with no Drs, not his fault though. Also his come back to form vs India was also helped by some gaffas in the field. Overall an ok but unibspiring captain. He did the job admirably but sone of his comments in the last series left bad taste! It was un-Cook like press conferences. The best captains, from Benaud to Brearley to Vaughan, all seem to enjoy their work and revel in the role. It always seemed to be a big puzzle and struggle for Cook. Not his fault though - he was thrust into and retained in an unsuited position due to the prevailing belief of 'there's no-one else' and maybe that was correct. Cook did the right thing and England will reap the benefits of his batting and having a more attacking captain like Root or maybe and I'm surprised no one has mentioned his name Stokes When Cook came to India, for the 1st time, as a 'wide-eyed-bushy-tailed' young man, ground India's bowlers to the ground, over after over, I, who had followed English cricket for many decades, was truly impressed. He was one of those who knew his limitations very well, but also knew how to harness his strengths, far better than what they really and normally could have resulted in. His commitment and silent deployment of his leadership wasn't fully recognized. Instead his unwitting involvement in the sorry KP saga tarnished the shine a bit more than what his role in that demanded, in my humble view. He, as Captain Cook, sailed his boat n' crew with utmost dignity, both in the turbulent and very calm waters. Though he, as the captain, along with the KP magic, and Swan Monty carrying coal to Newcastle (India), beat my team; as an Indian with genuine regards for a good dignified cricketer like Cook stand up salute at this critical point in his great career. Respects. Jose. Cook did the right thing and England will reap the benefits of his batting and having a more attacking captain like Root or maybe and I'm surprised no one has mentioned his name Stokes The best captains, from Benaud to Brearley to Vaughan, all seem to enjoy their work and revel in the role. It always seemed to be a big puzzle and struggle for Cook. Not his fault though - he was thrust into and retained in an unsuited position due to the prevailing belief of 'there's no-one else' and maybe that was correct. He wanst natural but he had some teriffic players at disposal. The line up had Trott, Bell, KP, Prior, Swann, Monty, Jimmy, Board and that made his job a lot easier. He owes the India victory to KP, Swann and Monty. Although he scored a 100 in that Mumbai test he was lucky to get away with no Drs, not his fault though. Also his come back to form vs India was also helped by some gaffas in the field. Overall an ok but unibspiring captain. He did the job admirably but sone of his comments in the last series left bad taste! It was un-Cook like press conferences. Ben Stokes - a terrific talent - is still coming to terms with controlling his own behaviour and temper, Cricinfofan, 44*****102! He would likely to be a diplomatic disaster if given the captaincy. Here's a thought (open to debate, as ever!): the very best captains (really the very best!), like Mike Brearley, the late Richie Benaud and perhaps above all, the late Sir Frank Worrell, did not have outsized egos. Outsized egos make flawed captains! Ben Stokes has a massive ego (like Beefy or KP!) - and good luck to him; it enables him to scale heights not available to those who do not possess that inner arrogance and that reservoir of sustained aggression that makes the great individual sportsman - but such players are never captaincy material! When Cook came to India, for the 1st time, as a 'wide-eyed-bushy-tailed' young man, ground India's bowlers to the ground, over after over, I, who had followed English cricket for many decades, was truly impressed. He was one of those who knew his limitations very well, but also knew how to harness his strengths, far better than what they really and normally could have resulted in. His commitment and silent deployment of his leadership wasn't fully recognized. Instead his unwitting involvement in the sorry KP saga tarnished the shine a bit more than what his role in that demanded, in my humble view. He, as Captain Cook, sailed his boat n' crew with utmost dignity, both in the turbulent and very calm waters. Though he, as the captain, along with the KP magic, and Swan Monty carrying coal to Newcastle (India), beat my team; as an Indian with genuine regards for a good dignified cricketer like Cook stand up salute at this critical point in his great career. Respects. Jose. I can imagine that he may well be looking oard a lot to the season ahead,knowing he has done his bit and he can just relax in the field and not have to work out the fielding positions and bowling changes. I like what he said about not being too dependant on one's own choices but being able to takeon good advice. Root should be okay and pretty upbeat as his successor. The point about a lot of people wanting the side to do well is an understatement. That loss in India was ghastly beyond measure, a gloom lifted mercifully by the ODI series.