50 overs South Africa 367 for 5 (du Plessis 185, Pathirana 2-55) v Sri Lanka Live Scorecard and ball-by-ball details Faf du Plessis unleashed a variety of drives during his 185 - the second-highest score by a South African in ODIs Getty Images Having already won the series on Saturday, South Africa's batsmen filled their boots against a Sri Lankan attack with one foot and what looks like all of their hearts and minds on the plane. They posted the highest total at Newlands , overtaking the 354 for 3 they put on against Kenya in 2001. Quinton de Kock scored his first fifty of the series, AB de Villiers his fiftieth fifty in his ODI career but Faf du Plessis stole the show. His second century of the series also made him the holder of the second-highest individual score by a South African , surpassing Quinton de Kock's unbeaten 178 against Australia in September 2016 and three runs short of Gary Kirsten's 188* against the UAE at the 1996 World Cup. Sri Lanka could only watch. Left-arm spinner Sachith Pathirana conceded less than six runs an over with four other bowlers costing the side more than seven runs an over. Lahiru Kumara, playing his just his fifth ODI, was the most expensive and leaked 73 runs from seven overs. Things did not start too badly for Sri Lanka, though. Kumara dismissed Hashim Amla, playing a loose drive and edging to slip, in his first over. But that was as good as it got. De Kock took Kumara's second over for 12 runs to announce his intent against anything too full, too wide and even on the pads. Du Plessis was in an equally punishing mood and the pair raced to a century stand by the time Sri Lanka could have their first drink. De Kock brought up fifty off 40 balls and neither seam nor spin was spared. Lakshan Sandakan, who proved destructive on T20I debut , saw his first over go for 15 runs and South Africa took 26 off the first three overs of spin, forcing Sri Lanka to go back to the quicks, who also could not stop the bleeding. Some relief came after the first break when de Kock edged Pathirana to Upul Tharanga at slip but it was short-lived. De Villiers was the next man in and if Sri Lanka thought they could slow down South Africa, they were wrong. De Kock and du Plessis had motored on at a rate of 6.89; de Villiers picked up exactly where they left off and put on 137 runs with du Plessis at a rate of 6.90. The two captains' contributions were almost mirror images of each other - du Plessis scored 70 runs in their stand; de Villiers 64. Du Plessis' fifty came off 46 balls with a drive off a half-volley. De Villiers kept pace but had to do it with strike rotation rather than boundary hitting early on. Sri Lanka sent down six overs during which South Africa could not find the fence but they still scored 32 runs in that time. A a sweep off Sandakan from de Villiers, whose bat switched between broom and light-sabre at will, broke the boundary drought and South Africa's exhibition continued. De Villiers reached his fifty off 51 balls, the delivery before du Plessis dug out a Kumara yorker to get to a hundred and Sri Lanka still had to endure another 17.4 overs in the field. De Villiers only added another 14 runs before being bowled around his legs; du Plessis did not give them any such let-off. As his innings went on, he batted more aggressively. His first fifty came off 46 balls, his second off 43 and his third off 40 as he brought out everything from a straight drive back over the bowler's head to a scoop over fine leg, once in the same over. Farhaan Behardien was not simply a passive observer. He scored almost half the runs (31) in a 74-run stand but was happy to hand strike back to du Plessis as he went in search of the record. Du Plessis wanted it and hit Nuwan Kulasekara for six in the penultimate over to overtake de Kock and then tried to repeat the feat with four balls to go. Du Plessis did not get enough power behind his shot and long-on took the catch to end his quest. For Sri Lanka, though, the damage was done. History aside - a chasing team has only won six of the last 28 day-night ODIs - Sri Lanka have not topped 200 in this series so far. Chasing this target could prove a tall order. Firdose Moonda is ESPNcricinfo's South Africa correspondent Pretorius is just not good enough Great show by dickwella thank u very much for your 58 Dickwella gone just now . Srilanka have pedal to the metal and balls to the walls . Well played Dickwella. Go Srilanka go . We are witnessing one the the greatest chases in recent times. All the questions answered today - SA has the batting but not the bowling attack and will not win the ICC trophy @Dhirshan Gobind - most of the high scoring games are in SA SL fighing back. Good to see Tharanga and Dickwella taking fight to SA camp. SL do need a good win. Best luck to them. Congratulation @UT fan . Enjoy your day in paradise Sanath Jayasuriya's experiment with opening slot have failed miserably and came back to prove that Upul is the one of the best opener SL have ever had. It was a shame dropping him from the opening slot and tried half a dozen openers to loose matches continuously including the ODI world cup. I hope Sanath building the team not messing with one of the openers, keeping Upul permanent. Tharanga is should be opening than playing in the middle, he is too good to milk runs in the first 10 overs. He is playing in the middle is waste. Hope and request Sanath your experimenting is enough, time has proved to you that you wont find any better opener in Sl now than Tharanga. Dickwella should play smartly, faced too many dot balls in the first 10 overs. Relax all ..we have seen these things happen . First they go bang bang when the target is high and it's just a matter of one wicket. Once it's down ,the match is done. I still feel SL will fall 50-75 runs short of target. But if they win the. It's very good for SLC who is struggling these days .all the best. This is what ab has to learn, on this kind of surfaces the game needs to be slowed down so that bowlers can think and he can place proper fields. Pretorius is just not good enough Great show by dickwella thank u very much for your 58 Dickwella gone just now . Srilanka have pedal to the metal and balls to the walls . Well played Dickwella. Go Srilanka go . We are witnessing one the the greatest chases in recent times. All the questions answered today - SA has the batting but not the bowling attack and will not win the ICC trophy @Dhirshan Gobind - most of the high scoring games are in SA SL fighing back. Good to see Tharanga and Dickwella taking fight to SA camp. SL do need a good win. Best luck to them. Congratulation @UT fan . Enjoy your day in paradise Sanath Jayasuriya's experiment with opening slot have failed miserably and came back to prove that Upul is the one of the best opener SL have ever had. It was a shame dropping him from the opening slot and tried half a dozen openers to loose matches continuously including the ODI world cup. I hope Sanath building the team not messing with one of the openers, keeping Upul permanent. Tharanga is should be opening than playing in the middle, he is too good to milk runs in the first 10 overs. He is playing in the middle is waste. Hope and request Sanath your experimenting is enough, time has proved to you that you wont find any better opener in Sl now than Tharanga. Dickwella should play smartly, faced too many dot balls in the first 10 overs. Relax all ..we have seen these things happen . First they go bang bang when the target is high and it's just a matter of one wicket. Once it's down ,the match is done. I still feel SL will fall 50-75 runs short of target. But if they win the. It's very good for SLC who is struggling these days .all the best. This is what ab has to learn, on this kind of surfaces the game needs to be slowed down so that bowlers can think and he can place proper fields. On the evidence of this innings at least I can see why the Lankan Bradman (Tharanga apparently) gets SO much focus on every Lankan board. Since the retirement of Sanga / Mahela, I have not seen any SL batsman gear up for a fight like this when the bowlers have been beaten down. I can see why people get into a hair tearing frenzy when rank rookies have been tried and kept ahead of this guy. He is oozing class here, scoring freely with that Lankan flair and silencing Haysman for a chance. Srilanka will win in 48 over. If sl wont be bowled out sl will win this easily.no chadimal,no pressure, no blockethon 64-0 Very good pitch - Well we will beat Sri- Lanka again but Parnell and kie just indicating again why the no 1 ODI team will not win the ICC trophy - other than Thahir - well done qoutas Abbott would have had 3 wickets already I have tickets for England v South Africa at Ageas Bowl in the summer. If Ngidi can be fit I see this South African side as being one of the best they've ever had. Hopefully English weather won't spoil the occasion;) Du Plessis out on his feet, but if Behardien had joined him instead of Duminy at 3 down I think he would have made the double-hundred. One of Behardien's greatest assets, often overlooked, is his ability as a non-striker to turn ones into twos, probably the best in the world at that. I think that International managers should be more fluid with their batting. If de Villiers was out before the 30th over then I would have accepted Duminy going in at five, but he was out in the 37th, so Behardien, who takes 4 or 5 balls to get his eye in should have batted ahead of Duminy, who takes 20+. Behardien 36*(20), Duminy in the series 59, out twice, off 81 balls. If sl wont be bowled out sl will win this easily. Good start by Sri Lanka but how average is Wayne Parnell Jimny Christmas!!! Upul Tharanga is back. Are we SL back to the days of whipping boys of world cricket? There is a saying Action speaks louder than words .The reception Faf got from Australian crowd couple months ago in Adelaide in both innings in tests there and as SA lost the test,he had no appropriate answer to it at that time.But in hindsight,first as a captain and now as a batsmen he is doing everything he can to help SA usurp Aussies as no.1 ODI team and may soon help replace them as no.2 test team as well as captain,lol.There can't be a sweeter response from Faf for the Aussies for the response he got from Aussie crowd.Can't wait for Australia's tour of SA next year. Gunaratne had an economy of 8 @ cricfan63700908 . The reason those 2 had lower economies is that they didnt bowl more . If they bowked mire both wouldve had even worse economies . If lahiru kumara didnt bowl at the end even his economy wouldve been better . Same goes for anyone . The onky reason dds has an economy of 6 is becauae he didnt bow at the death . If he did, his econom wouldve matched the others dananjaya and gunaratne left many overs,in spite of economical under the circumstances. great showing by SA.a case of men against boys really...Looking forward to the NZ series.They will be tough I wonder why many critics have labelled these as flat wickets and boring to see 300 all the time or are those criticisms only for subcontinent? Or is it superior batti g vs inferiror bowling that results in 300 rather than pitch? sri lanka must remain in the field 50 overs... SL will loose by more than 200 runs Quite agree about Duminy @SAFFA79! So typical of Behardien's career...two matches in the series, faces 20 balls, yet people always saying he doesn't get enough fifties!! Such an under-rated player for so many reasons. No choking with him;) Too bad Faf couldn't get the 200. Won't be too long until someone like De Kock gets there though. Imagine if SA players played on pitches in India where anyone can get 200. A great game to pad the stats. A horrible game to watch unless SL have a couple of Stoinis' in their line up I don't know about. Bees are coming to save lions. sa will win by 300 runs... This humiliation, SLC please recall this team home immediately. @jpk1964: you forget Australia..SL hasn't won a single test in Australia till date.. 280/3 take a risk or something. Nudging singles just dont get it Duminy 11 off 15 what the hell are you doing Two most difficult countries to tour for the Lankans i.e. India and SA tells me no matter you find budding young cricketers even from the heaven still these two countries will have complete and utter dominance over SL due to their far superior quality of players. SA and India would show year after year what rubbish SL could find even from heaven. Moving on SL can be competitive in T20 cricket and nothing more. @SL_SUPPORTER:yes sadakan is expensive today.but dont foget what he did in this series.dont judge a player by one match,if people like chandimal get countless opportunities with countless failures why sadakan?dont think like our selectors. SA are probably on their way to 13th straight ODI victory @ home and I'm not sure Amla had a decent contribution with the bat in any of those 13 matches.De Kock,Faf,De Villiers,Duminy for almost 2 years and in recent times Rossouw,Miller has carried teams responsibility with the bat and Morris, Pretorius,Andile had some impressive innings down the order against England,Australia.The irony though is some people calls for Faf's head when most of his ODI hundreds came in last one and half years and he looks in his finest touch in the format of his career while in reality it's Amla who probably needs some time away from the team to work on his game and regain his touch temperament,but because CT is so close,SA probably wouldn't dare dropping him as they needs Amla in his best shape in couple of months time.Suddenly the loss of Rossouw looking a big one.De Kock Rossouw's partnership up top was starting to look ominous. Sensible decision to drop Chanimal. He shouldn't have played previous games either. Anyway since Sadun was in the squad, give this lad a chance to play next two games. I think Sadakan can be in the test team but not in ODIs. Need to find a genuine spinner for ODIs. ABD about to go berserk at Cape Town Can there be a bee attack again. Too painful to watch FAF captain of the world!!!!!!!!!!! Yesssssssssssss!!!!! What a champion..... ABD is key, he is the difference between 370 and 320 Sri lanka need to get him out because once he starts going it will be very difficult to stop him.But as a Protea I am hoping he will give us another AB special. SA have scored 190 in 30 overs. They can declare safely now. SRL won't reach that score and everyone can enjoy a well-deserved extra-time rest at the end of the day. Dropping Chandimal at this stage with a tough tour to Australia coming up soon doesn't make sense denying him an opportunity to regain some sort of batting form, unless SL selectors already decided he won't go going there. 400 is on the card guys, in this match we will score something closer to 200. Madushanka seem to be another useless allrounder Prasana is in the squad.SA will score more than 300.so need some power hitting.usually These days dhanjaya silva scores less than 20.. new players like sandun weerkody,thikshila should v'e been given the opportunity for home matches first.selectors ruin the new players by selecting them for tours against world best hosts like SA on difficult surfaces in their home. So we drop chandimal,why not tharanga dananjaya.did tharanga play a captain innings?alao he is a worse captain sl ever had.look at how he set the field balling changes.just remind how chandi get the game in last t20.matthews is a far better than tharanga.if tharanga won't play a good innings today,he should be dropped for ever. All the credit of De Kock's wicket should go to Dickwella..He is the one who urged Tharanga to come upto the slip..( heard on the stump mic the ball before) Well done young lad.. Kulaselara is way better than overrated Lahiru Pushpakumara. SLC ( not SLBC as I have been saying before) in Dubai taking sides with India! When are we going grow? We just don't need a big brother. For whom ? @srcric . Weve picked a weak squad of batters Glad to see the selectors felt the pressure to drop an underperforming senior. Wise decision- more like how Aussies do. if sl lose this match selectors will justify the inclusion of chandimal. What made dhanjaya silva better than chandimal.dropping catches?irresponsibility or laziness?could have dropped him too. Sri lanka needs to have a proper plan as to which player has to play which role...batsmen needs to play in pairs while focusing on 5 overs at a time. Stick to basics and then perform to thr fullest. Hope SL will give a good fight tonight 120 k Kulasekara Fast Medium
140 k Kumara Medim Fast
how comes like that? Russell is sending strong signals that Quota rules can be broken by leaving out Andile. I like it a lot. Adds more value to the position. No featured comments at the moment. Russell is sending strong signals that Quota rules can be broken by leaving out Andile. I like it a lot. Adds more value to the position. 120 k Kulasekara Fast Medium
140 k Kumara Medim Fast
how comes like that? Sri lanka needs to have a proper plan as to which player has to play which role...batsmen needs to play in pairs while focusing on 5 overs at a time. Stick to basics and then perform to thr fullest. Hope SL will give a good fight tonight What made dhanjaya silva better than chandimal.dropping catches?irresponsibility or laziness?could have dropped him too. if sl lose this match selectors will justify the inclusion of chandimal. Glad to see the selectors felt the pressure to drop an underperforming senior. Wise decision- more like how Aussies do. For whom ? @srcric . Weve picked a weak squad of batters SLC ( not SLBC as I have been saying before) in Dubai taking sides with India! When are we going grow? We just don't need a big brother. Kulaselara is way better than overrated Lahiru Pushpakumara. All the credit of De Kock's wicket should go to Dickwella..He is the one who urged Tharanga to come upto the slip..( heard on the stump mic the ball before) Well done young lad..