Chris Gayle and Ravi Bopara are among the foreign players set to play in PSL 2017 AFP The Pakistan Super League kicked off its second season by reconfirming that the final will be played at the Gaddafi Stadium in Lahore. Najam Sethi, the PSL, chairman, was at the unveiling ceremony of the winner's trophy in Dubai with the five captains, and he said he would be briefing each franchise on Tuesday about the exhaustive security measures that have been taken for smooth conduct of the match on March 5. Gaddafi stadium undergoes renovation The pitch area and the outfield at Gaddafi stadium is being refurbished and a newly build press gallery stand at FC college end is set to be inaugurated on March 5, the day of the PSL final. Though the stadium last hosted an international match in 2015, after a six-year gap, domestic matches have been taking place regularly. "I want to reiterate on this occasion that the final of the PSL will be in Lahore. Let there be no confusion about that," Sethi said. "Tomorrow at 11am, there will be a meeting with all the franchise owners and foreign players where I will give details of the preparations we are making for security and safety for Lahore, which will be endorsed for their satisfaction by the ICC and other player associations." It is not yet clear how the PCB will manage to obtain endorsements of Lahore's security arrangements from player associations. Last month, the Federation of International Cricketers' Associations (FICA) issued a report warning that an "acceptable level of participant security and safety cannot be expected or guaranteed" in Pakistan. In response, the PCB accused FICA of doing "great disservice to the cause of Pakistan cricket in particular" and called their approach "careless and cavalier", which then prompted FICA to issue a justification . Since that spat, Giles Clarke, the ECB president and head of the ICC-constituted Pakistan Task Force, has visited Lahore to meet with the PCB as well as Punjab government officials about the security measures that have been taken to try and bring international teams back to Pakistan. It is believed Clarke shared details of his trip with member boards at the ICC meetings this past weekend in Dubai. As opposed to last year, when all the franchise captains were Pakistani, three of the five - Kumar Sangakarra (Karachi Kings), Darren Sammy (Peshawar Zalmi) and Brendon McCullum (Lahore Qalandars) - are foreign players. In addition to the winners' trophy, the PSL introduced trophies for the best batsman, bowler and wicketkeeper of the tournament. They have been named after the late cricketers Hanif Mohammad , Fazal Mahmood and Imtiaz Ahmed respectively. The season begins on February 9 when defending champions Islamabad United take on Peshawar Zalmi at the Dubai International Stadium. Danyal Rasool is a freelance sports writer who has been published in the Cricketer , Sport360, New Zealand Herald , and the Daily Times . @Danny61000 Need to see Afridi infront of pak crowd one last time I'm sure this will open the door for international cricket in pak again. Lots of respect for Giles Clark who visited pak before making a statement unlike FICA that's really against cricket coming back to pak for obvious reasons pak players don't endorse FICA It wont b much of problem. More likely a fly in type of arrangement and only 2 teams will play final which will mean only 8-9 players. About FICA, they have done from miles away unlike Giles who visited. All the best of luck and World definitely wants cricket back to Pakistan. Many of international tournaments like just concluded Davis Cup are being played in Pakistan regularly and participated by foreign teams; then why Cricket the only inclusion? Politics!!!! Psl here we come supporting gladiators my 11 shehzad,wright,KP,roussow,sarfraz,Nawaz,Nasim,anwar ali,gul,mills,babar Need to see Afridi infront of pak crowd one last time I'm sure this will open the door for international cricket in pak again. Lots of respect for Giles Clark who visited pak before making a statement unlike FICA that's really against cricket coming back to pak for obvious reasons pak players don't endorse FICA It wont b much of problem. More likely a fly in type of arrangement and only 2 teams will play final which will mean only 8-9 players. About FICA, they have done from miles away unlike Giles who visited. All the best of luck and World definitely wants cricket back to Pakistan. Many of international tournaments like just concluded Davis Cup are being played in Pakistan regularly and participated by foreign teams; then why Cricket the only inclusion? Politics!!!! Psl here we come supporting gladiators my 11 shehzad,wright,KP,roussow,sarfraz,Nawaz,Nasim,anwar ali,gul,mills,babar No featured comments at the moment. Psl here we come supporting gladiators my 11 shehzad,wright,KP,roussow,sarfraz,Nawaz,Nasim,anwar ali,gul,mills,babar All the best of luck and World definitely wants cricket back to Pakistan. Many of international tournaments like just concluded Davis Cup are being played in Pakistan regularly and participated by foreign teams; then why Cricket the only inclusion? Politics!!!! It wont b much of problem. More likely a fly in type of arrangement and only 2 teams will play final which will mean only 8-9 players. About FICA, they have done from miles away unlike Giles who visited. I'm sure this will open the door for international cricket in pak again. Lots of respect for Giles Clark who visited pak before making a statement unlike FICA that's really against cricket coming back to pak for obvious reasons pak players don't endorse FICA Need to see Afridi infront of pak crowd one last time