Play 03:01 Samiuddin: Expect BCCI to influence changes in new model Mull for a moment on the ironies that emerged during Saturday's meeting of the ICC Board in Dubai. When the new model for revenue distribution , in which the BCCI stood to make substantially less than it did under the Big Three model, came up for discussion the Indian board questioned the calculations and the science behind these new numbers. To which no one said, but really should have: #Facepalm.   Because when the BCCI, CA and the ECB presented their financial model three years ago, a number of objectors asked the Big Three the same question. Where is the science behind this? What is the formula by which you arrived at these numbers? There wasn't one, was the answer. It was a nifty bit of reverse engineering, which began with the BCCI throwing up a figure based on an estimate of what the ICC might earn by way of rights. CA and ECB then negotiated it down to something more palatable to them. There isn't any science behind the new model either, as the authors apparently admitted in their report. It's true. Try putting the ICC's publicly stated guiding principles for this model into a calculator: "good conscience", "common sense and simplicity", "enabling every Member to grow", "revenue generated by Members", "greater transparency" [ smirk ], and "recognition of interdependency amongst Members, that cricket playing nations [sic] each other and the more strong nations, the better for the sport". No, not really. At Saturday's meeting, the BCCI had also asked for the vote on the new constitution to be deferred. Why was there such a rush to get things voted upon and approved so quickly, it wondered, when there was another board meeting in April, before the AGM in June when such changes will be formalised. ROFL at this objection a little, when remembering the bullying, haggling and the undue haste with which the Big Three pulled off its coup. On Saturday, the BCCI complained the new model was presented to them as a fait accompli. Well, blow us all down if those weren't the exact words used by several member boards when they were blindsided by the Big Three's first position paper at a special meeting in January 2014. They were told to take it or leave it, and that leaving it wasn't really an option.   The final, abiding irony, of course, you will not have missed. Five men made up the working group that produced these new recommendations and models. One of them was David Peever, chairman of a board that so faithfully hid in the shadow of the BCCI when the Big Three revamp was foisted upon the game. Peever at least has the excuse that he is not Wally Edwards, who was CA chairman at the time. What excuse does Giles Clarke have, part of this working group and the voice on the other shoulder of the BCCI three years ago? No, that's right: he doesn't. And nothing captures the paucity in cricket administration better than Clarke once bringing in the very constitution he is now trying to rip up. Go on, linger over these ironies, lighten your heart a little if you felt pain and anger at the start of 2014. Because there may not be much more to take from this weekend in Dubai, not yet anyway. For one, though the pleasure of these ironies might have its place, that does not mean it is guilt free. There is no science, no data behind this new financial model either, and as the BCCI representative Vikram Limaye is said to have pointed out at the meeting - two wrongs don't make a right.  The new model could be said to be almost as arbitrary as the Big Three's, except that the BCCI has not been involved in its construction. In fact, it is said that the lack of a formula behind the new model is explained in the report as a result of the lack of a formula in the Big Three's version. He who gets to write history has won it, right? And the others just bear the consequences. It is to cricket's discredit that it has not been able - or been bothered enough - to work out a distribution model that is pragmatic and fair; one beyond a general principle that says, "The Indian cricket economy is massive, let's give the BCCI some more and the others what is left." There is no publicly available research, academic or otherwise, that breaks down the exact nature of cricket's economy, of where the money comes from for ICC events, for bilateral games, for domestic Twenty20 leagues. If there are such documents, they should be made public, otherwise all cricket can do is to continue to pretend to be a professionalised, leading global sport and hide the fact that it is run by people who are not really sports management professionals.       And the haste to push this vote through was, in a different way, as opportunistic as the Big Three's methods three years ago. Shashank Manohar, the ICC chairman, and everyone else knew the time to strike was now, that never again would they come upon a BCCI administration so frazzled by domestic turmoil so as to be almost completely isolated at the ICC. The BCCI was in no position to put up a stand or round up enough members to its side. The Board meeting was said to have been fairly tension free - in part because the majority, including CA and the ECB (yes, the irony), was united. But rushing the minority into a vote, when they had not had time or opportunity to consider the consequences of that vote - well, some might even call that bullying. So what we have - in principle, the ICC reminded us - is great change on the horizon. Principles can be beautiful but they can also end up meaning nothing. In principle, right now, means nothing, or at best it is a reminder that change isn't certain yet. Note, in particular, the tone of what a BCCI member told ESPNcricinfo after the meeting on Saturday evening. A 7-2 vote in favour of the new model, he said, was actually good because it showed the BCCI that it could get support. "They need an 8-2 majority," he said. "And the vote cannot go forward if four members oppose the resolution. We will get them." Sri Lanka is already on the BCCI's side, and Zimbabwe abstained from voting; a few threats of India cancelling fixtures, a couple of promises here and there, and boom. And why wouldn't the BCCI link acceptance of a new distribution to the new structures of international cricket , given that the latter means so much to so many? Why wouldn't the BCCI subvert new structures, by promising members extra matches? All the BCCI needs is a bit of time to settle and get to work.   Even this interim, haphazard BCCI delegation had already begun doing so, at the Asian Cricket Council (ACC) meeting on Friday evening. And it did not go unnoticed that a key IPL figure from the N Srinivasan era, who had worked on the Big Three proposals, popped up in Dubai during the meetings, offering guidance and advice. Just a reminder, you know; and as a corollary, a reminder that cricket lacks a central, constitutional strength in how it should be, that it is a sport which can be shaped according to the simple desires of its strongest members. Still, at least we'll have the ironies. Osman Samiuddin is a senior editor at ESPNcricinfo time for the BCCI to be put in its place. Can anybody explain to me why SL opposed this deal? is it just to be a loyal supporter of BCCI or there is something else cooking under? @SURGICALTEAMUNO - India progressed pretty well while England Australia ruled the roost. From nowhere to the top. India, New Zealand, South Africa, West Indies, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Zimbabxe, Bangladesh all became test nations. How many have become test nations since India have been in charge?
For the first time in years they are outvoted and lo! Two more test nations!
Times change, cricket changes - money rules these days - the game is all about entertainment for the masses, dumbing down to reap the financial rewards. I think it's a shame, but I'm pretty sure I am also in the minority. @SURGICALTEAMUNO, any truth in your comment? If so, then please do share examples. This is nothing but a clever ploy (Blackmailing) by most of the other boards to box BCCI into a corner at a time when a churn is taking place in the BCCI, In exchange for a No vote against ICC BCCI will be coerced in to arranging more overseas tours to such countries , giving more handouts, BCCI allowing Indian players to participate in overseas T20 Leagues to raise the profile of these tournaments in eyes of Indian public / corporates /TV Companies . As mentioned in the article by June BCCI will have atleast six members by there side .... @ESPNFAN59 You need to forget completely what happens now and think what will HAVE to happen in the future if India's money was not available. There would have to be change in order to survive. England and Australia could live without India visiting but would need to sustain growth globally to maintain the sport as a viable concern in the long term. How that happens is a question for all the member nations if India turned its back on them. Mark my words, BCCI will have the last laugh on this one... and it will do Cricket a lot of good in the long run if it does. When England and Oz ruled cricket no affiliates progressed with their Cricket, but the BCCI, in such a short duration, has brought a lot of affiliates up to speed and will continue to nurture them. Give a fish and you make a person dependent on you, but teach fishing and you set them positively for life! @Ruchit Khushu: Don't you remember the ICC clause ? Govt. shouldn't interfere in the boards policies.. And more over Indian govt. won't do it, as Eng Aus would throw in diplomatic pressure as well. Indian govt. can only stop India from taking part in the matches, they can't ban someone because they haven't been morally correct in financial transactions. It ain't depicting anything against India for them to ban, so ICC could knock on the courts doors even if such a ban was put in place. Only if TV broadcasters decide to ban telecast it would be possible. @HamzaSalman: The new bosses haven't tried to dictate terms, they haven't even got time to read the constitution, to even talk about it. Lets be practical, earlier Srinivasan was an disaster not just for ICC but even far more for BCCI's image as well. It won't be right to blame one for mistake of an another. I was vocal against Srini's decisions in the past I still stand by it. @pwcricket: You are spot on with the statement that game has to spread, we have seen the inability of ICC to do so in the past 50 years. Its up to the member boards to take up a few countries each spread the game more over there, may be conduct regular sessions, unofficial matches with ex-players taking part in the games. All you need is a will. ECB has done nothing to spread the game even to their inferior neighbors nor did ACB. BCCI can take up spreading to Asian block nations, such as China, Nepal, Afghans, may be an attempt with Russia as well. While Aus can take over nations closer to them spread a bit more into their friendlier nations such as US as Windies can't afford it. ECB can spread it in the Euro block, while ICC could focus on South America, SA can help in African block. If given to ICC, it will not spread the game beyond 5-6 nations in the next 50 years either. ICC must constitute it as a mandatory for affordable boards to spread the game around. PWCRICKET - ACB don't care for American markets, they only want revenues to develop their players win more WCs. While in ENG cricket is dying, countys Kolpak players from other countries like IRE Scot SA, so they don't care about developing cricket anywhere. They only want to host IND vs ENG or IND VS AUS or Ashes to get revenues, they don't care about PAK BD SL WI Zim. time for the BCCI to be put in its place. Can anybody explain to me why SL opposed this deal? is it just to be a loyal supporter of BCCI or there is something else cooking under? @SURGICALTEAMUNO - India progressed pretty well while England Australia ruled the roost. From nowhere to the top. India, New Zealand, South Africa, West Indies, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Zimbabxe, Bangladesh all became test nations. How many have become test nations since India have been in charge?
For the first time in years they are outvoted and lo! Two more test nations!
Times change, cricket changes - money rules these days - the game is all about entertainment for the masses, dumbing down to reap the financial rewards. I think it's a shame, but I'm pretty sure I am also in the minority. @SURGICALTEAMUNO, any truth in your comment? If so, then please do share examples. This is nothing but a clever ploy (Blackmailing) by most of the other boards to box BCCI into a corner at a time when a churn is taking place in the BCCI, In exchange for a No vote against ICC BCCI will be coerced in to arranging more overseas tours to such countries , giving more handouts, BCCI allowing Indian players to participate in overseas T20 Leagues to raise the profile of these tournaments in eyes of Indian public / corporates /TV Companies . As mentioned in the article by June BCCI will have atleast six members by there side .... @ESPNFAN59 You need to forget completely what happens now and think what will HAVE to happen in the future if India's money was not available. There would have to be change in order to survive. England and Australia could live without India visiting but would need to sustain growth globally to maintain the sport as a viable concern in the long term. How that happens is a question for all the member nations if India turned its back on them. Mark my words, BCCI will have the last laugh on this one... and it will do Cricket a lot of good in the long run if it does. When England and Oz ruled cricket no affiliates progressed with their Cricket, but the BCCI, in such a short duration, has brought a lot of affiliates up to speed and will continue to nurture them. Give a fish and you make a person dependent on you, but teach fishing and you set them positively for life! @Ruchit Khushu: Don't you remember the ICC clause ? Govt. shouldn't interfere in the boards policies.. And more over Indian govt. won't do it, as Eng Aus would throw in diplomatic pressure as well. Indian govt. can only stop India from taking part in the matches, they can't ban someone because they haven't been morally correct in financial transactions. It ain't depicting anything against India for them to ban, so ICC could knock on the courts doors even if such a ban was put in place. Only if TV broadcasters decide to ban telecast it would be possible. @HamzaSalman: The new bosses haven't tried to dictate terms, they haven't even got time to read the constitution, to even talk about it. Lets be practical, earlier Srinivasan was an disaster not just for ICC but even far more for BCCI's image as well. It won't be right to blame one for mistake of an another. I was vocal against Srini's decisions in the past I still stand by it. @pwcricket: You are spot on with the statement that game has to spread, we have seen the inability of ICC to do so in the past 50 years. Its up to the member boards to take up a few countries each spread the game more over there, may be conduct regular sessions, unofficial matches with ex-players taking part in the games. All you need is a will. ECB has done nothing to spread the game even to their inferior neighbors nor did ACB. BCCI can take up spreading to Asian block nations, such as China, Nepal, Afghans, may be an attempt with Russia as well. While Aus can take over nations closer to them spread a bit more into their friendlier nations such as US as Windies can't afford it. ECB can spread it in the Euro block, while ICC could focus on South America, SA can help in African block. If given to ICC, it will not spread the game beyond 5-6 nations in the next 50 years either. ICC must constitute it as a mandatory for affordable boards to spread the game around. PWCRICKET - ACB don't care for American markets, they only want revenues to develop their players win more WCs. While in ENG cricket is dying, countys Kolpak players from other countries like IRE Scot SA, so they don't care about developing cricket anywhere. They only want to host IND vs ENG or IND VS AUS or Ashes to get revenues, they don't care about PAK BD SL WI Zim. @NAVEED AKHTAR: Fine .Let us then ban broadcast of CT matches in India. That will be a GOI decision.. ICC can't do little wait a sec nothing about it !! It's clear that BCCI was getting too big for its boots. It was cut down to size first by the Indian Supreme Court and now is experiencing trouble dictating terms in ICC. This is an example on how one should not forget their true worth and stay true to the mission and values at all times. @Daisycric: From which part of the world are you ? So, in India we have ads from Eng Aus. wow ! so for you companies such as Reliance, Tata, Mahindra, TVS, MRF are from Eng or are they from Aus ? If you have no idea about India, its better you keep quiet instead of embarrassing yourself publicly like this. Coke Pepsi are few major advertisers, they don't belong to either of these 2 nations either, they belong to USA. Even Nestle, P G, Colgate are neither from these 2 countries. I can count may be handful of successful UK companies in India, may be Haier from Aus.. may be Kelvinator, other than that I can't recall any other sponsors for tv ads during matches ? Its quite evident you have zero general knowledge, some of these figures can be searched even in google. And GDP wise neither Eng nor Aus are larger than India. You can certainly claim them richer than India, no arguments on that point. @EspnFan59: Most of the nations would vote against BCCI ban if a voting was to take place minus PCB of course. You don't need a rocket scientist to confirm which teams (test playing) would vote unconditionally - Aus, SA, SL, NZ, Zim, WI, Eng. Match against India means a big revenue boost, its the same reason PCB have been trying to get matches against India by hook or by crook. BCB will not be ready to be in bad eyes either. @Daisycric: Gentleman's game or not its the same which helps in running of the game. BCCI has launched pension schemes for its past players, how many countries have does this ? Even players from other countries had applauded the move wished their own board offered the same. And this is nonsense, to get equal share not every country has the same expenditure - looks like you have no knowledge or really a kid with absolute zero financial knowledge. Why not ask the players play free of cost, as its gentleman's game ! Ridiculous ! @CRICINFOUSER ON FEBRUARY 6, 2017, 8:47 GMT Yes. There is a saying: necessity is the mother of invention. In order to survive, they will have to expand. They will have to grow their existing markets into the Americas and the Far East. They will have to adapt. Otherwise the sport regresses 100 years. @ESPNFAN59 exactly. And they also forget BCCI was the main opposer to 2-tier system, or BD, SL and soon Pak (already at 6th) would be relegated to the second tier. @DaisyCric: Bro this is not 1940s. Cricket is ALSO big business now, if not why does Pakistan or BD play PSL and BPL? Why don't you just play 5-day cricket? Don't you watch commercialized shorter forms and local leagues? If the BCCI demanded equal revenue it would need to be given 70-80% of the total! The model allowed for 20% for BCCI and then 30% to ICC + 10% to developing members. BCCI helped BD gain test status, now helping Afghanistan with home ground in India. I don't think anyone is against development of cricket like you are suggesting. Every Test playing Nation should get equal shares of revenue, rest Funds should be allocated to ICC and this fund should be used in development of Cricket in other part of the world, so that cricket can flourish. Greedy people should be kicked out from Cricket, Cricket is gentle man game not business. Some Pak fans and BD fans want ICC to ban BCCI, if boards vote for this then ECB ACB will be the first to stand behind BCCI followed by CSA NZB. These Asian fans forget that ECB/ACB deviced this two tier system to get rid of teams like BD SL WI Zim may be even Pak team. @ambalal: BCCI supported Pak during 2011 WC but it was a 2 way show prior to that, both boards stood by each other. Falling out has hppd only after this stupid Big3 policy, which was brought forwarded. @zzby: Why don't you ask your country to distribute your earnings ? As you seem to be so in charity trying to dig other tax payers money. @tigerprk: ICC can't afford to lose BCCI, remember what hppd when Pak India got knocked out in earlier stages of 2007 WC ? Its the most disastrous WC ever held so far in history of cricket w.r.t losses. Its got nothing to do with guts, even the last sponsor which your BCB had was Sahara - which was an Indian company. So, think twice before you comment. It was BCCI who stood by BCB (along with the remaining Asian block), who helped BD to gain test status - which most of the non-Asian block nations still question - BD did no favors with their amazing test record either. Instead of pulling out of CT, India should ban commercials during ICC Tournaments which generate revenues for these tourneys. @Yasir Khan: hahaha if Pak is important to International Cricket - read the article - World Cup with out Pakistan in 2019 , then obviously India is more important. Considering ICC would struggle to lose Pak's revenue, then imagine losing the bulk of ads if India do more over ICC can't fine BCCI for not participating. Its their doing no one in correct mind would pay it either. Matches for Pak v India are dependent on political situation nothing that ICC could do on that issue either. Remember what happened in 1980 olympics in Russia ? US its allies boycotted but none were fined for not taking part, same thing would happen... just that it would be catastrophe for ICC to lose its major revenue sharer unlike olympics which had more no.of countries compared to cricket. All this happened due to Srinivasan and co. How ever BCCI still generates more hence demands more. If not what was earlier ( unfairly higher ) they still deserves a good returns. BCCI is not what it was before. Its now cleaner than ever so there should be no hatred. The new guys are deserving ones and will sort out the matter. From now on I hope there should be no reason to hate BCCI as its all clean-clean now. But that doesn't mean BCCI should not ask what ever (reasonable) it deserves. Manohar was trying something honest so it's in best interest to accommodate BCCI demands else in reality the members will result in loss of overall revenue of ICC and hence their share. BCCI may return back strongly in which case members are likely to lose much. Joke of this century to note that BCCI had been supporting Pakistan cricket.
For once ICC has restored some sportsman ship into cricket which is known as gentleman's sports. Thanks ICC for removing the big three tag which was more political than sports like. YASIR KHAN: It was BCCI who supported Pakistan when the ICC threatened to remove their right to co-host the 2011 World Cup. It is PCB who are desperate to play a Test series against India because playing a series against India generates money. Seriously what's your hatred for India? All you ever do is spread hate instead of trying to bridge ties between the two nations, teams and fanbase. You should respect the hand that feeds you, not bite it. Please publish, cricinfo. can somebody let me know when India pull out of CT? I can't sleep eat or do anything over this. they are so important.hahahHHAaahaaaa hahahahahahaha the camel is now under the mountain All those making fun of BCCI now, we can always bring back Srinivasan, Would ICC want that, I don't think so. @CRICFAN49837324 no such extreme step is required. Simply by reducing the number of matches played by India against the other top nations will bring them to reality @ Naveed Akhtar on February 6, 2017, 13:16 GMT That's why I suggested sending a B-Team for CT. No one can dictate to any board, as to to how they should go about selecting their team. @ZZBY if revenue is distributing bangla nepal afghan ireland scotland then thats fine but how come ECB and CA is also getting more revenue than big 3 model.ICC should also cut their revenue as they were also getting bigger pie.But ICC giving more money to them after big 3 rollback. Pulling out from CT at this stage means a very heavy fine for india.so they may not get what icc is offering them after paying the fine. Excellent decision reduce more Indian revenue and distribute among Bangla,Nepal,Afghan, Ireland,Scotland.. @Getsetgopk - I understand your point. I'm not trying to justify BCCI's decision to deny NOCs - in my opinion they should have allowed players to participate in other leagues. But the question still remains as to whether these players would have been picked by the concerned leagues because I don't think any of the high profile players would have applied for NOCs. Even for the IPL there are many foreign players who make themselves available, but are not bought by the teams. But yes, the players should have the freedom to look for playing opportunities across the globe. So we are on the same page on this. However all the chatter about isolating India and the other countries getting together will be a pipe dream as there just wont be enough funds to make it work @CRICFAN49837324, hahaha, spread cricket to the world, that was the catch cry of T20.haha. @kiwirocker: looks who is talking about using an fake name. First be proud of Ur nation and accept it rather than posting your comments using another countries name.. the first board that you have mentioned below in the pool shows from were u belong to. @getsetgopk, thats because indian player earned more money than other countries player. @ Togerprk, hah hah!! I saw recently concluded aus-pak and aus-nz series. How many audiences are preasent. Without India cricket will be history within five years. Looks like its pakistanis day out today BCCI should resign from ICC and form WCC (World Cricket Council) with Bangladesh, Sri Lanka,Zimbabwe, West Indies and if possible South Africa as well along with emerging nations like Afghanistan, Ireland etc. MCC and ICC have been ruling cricket for decades and did nothing for world cricket. It'll be a lesson for CA,ECB and most importantly PCB. The earlier two (CA and ECB) are hyenas as someone already mentioned it. They won't do anything to spread cricket around the world. Time is the proof. If PCB thinks that CA and ECB will help them they are delusional as their entire nation. BCCI has everything to do this. A strong leader is all that BCCI needs at this hour. @LoonyKiwiRocker- Impressive Choice of Alias...Good to see that I have inspired a whole new generation of Indians sulking behind the scenes..Now,more to the point, one has to feel disappointed that Sri Lanka cricket board is becoming toothless as they used to stand up to BCCI's bully...I personally agree with BCCI rep that they will still be able to gather some support as B'desh cricket board is a minnow nation living on BCCI's crumbs...Time has come to have PCB, CSA, ECB, CA and NZC to have their own pooled TV rights! Why is so much hype about what will happen if India pulls out from ct 2017?? No need to talk much ..if your BCCI have any guts please pull out from CT.....no one will stop watching cricket from rest of the world... Cricket without Australia means I'll watch more football games, play a bit more golf, spend more time with the family, more BBQ s, more time at the beach, It definitely won't be the end of the world, just sad, I won't watch cricket like I don't watch India play, whatever it is India play other than cricket. @JOSE...P
Agreed.For that BCCI needs srini.He is the only one now to grant ur wish.Hope SC conduct BCCI election soon to appoint new regime and make BCCI strong again :) I think enough is enough .It is high time BCCI tell the ICC that it is either their way or the highway..It is very clear from the actions of ICC in the past few months that they are trying to isolate BCCI. You never bite the hand that feeds you.I think India should boycott the Champions trophy to begin with if the ICC does not mend its ways and gives BCCI the recognition it deserves.To all the posters who are praising this move..the game has just begun.Remember he who laughs last laughs longer . Cricinfo please publish LOONYKIWIROCKER: 12 players from India applied for an NOC at the start of SLPL and were duly denied the right to play by your 'beloved' BCCI. Thats just one small example, just imagine how many would line up for NOC to play at much bigger events like the BBL or CPL or PSL. Just use your imagination, it shouldn't be hard to separate the right from wrong, plus you have the advantage of not being tied to the BCCI and thus under no obligation but only to speak your mind as a humble cricket fan. Yes players in Pak have expressed their desire to play in IPL, I have no issues with that, its their career and their right to speak as they see fit and play which pays them better. Wouldn't you wish players in India to have such freedom to be able to choose where to play and make a decent living. Of all the countries, India is the sole exception, where players are BANNED from playing elsewhere. Thats got to weigh on your mind. @Cricinfouser on February 6, 2017, 9:54 GMT You wrote: @ABC3 Against whom he wants to settle score on expense of his country fan At the rate at which he. The beautiful , is going, it looks, he wants to settle scores against the entire Indian cricket. After all Megalomania knows no limit! I wonder, what his plans are, once he finishes his term. Or terms. I may kick the bucket before that, but I'm sure. I will watch from up above there! To see how the fat lady sings for this beauty! @ELECTRIC_LOCO_WAP4_IS_DELUDED You are right GDP is not the issue. However, the size of a national economy is no indication of how well its citizens and the poor are treated. Cricket income and players salaries are becoming obscene in comparison. @Mike-ZA: I agree no one likes to be bullied, the same should apply to the ECB/ACB who were no saints either still are bound to gain more revenue share.. where as only BCCI is made as an scapegoat. 2 wrongs don't make one right but wrong is still a wrong. You can't blame the earlier admins mess on the new set of admins, you're only starting them on a wrong foot which won't end well. As for the Indian boycott, I think you forgot the Kerry Packer series or the recent ICL ? Players can be still lured to play lucrative tournaments. Even though, I'm not some one who would support it but still that will be an venture open to BCCI. For an instance, if BCCI stops playing, it could open multiple ventures for BCCI to spread in the country alone by hosting IPL for a longer duration with the above mentioned sort of players may be an ICL style international matches as well. Lets hope it doesn't get so worse, it won't be good either for ICC nor BCCI. DAISYCRIC: England and Australia don't have higher GDP. Forbes has said that India's economy surpasses England's and we all know how tiny Australia's GDP is lol. MEHR: No one wants to play with India? lol yet Pakistan are desperate to play against India. SHAMLAATU: India can form its own breakaway league. Cricket in India will survive. Cricket without India will struggle. MIKE-ZA: Cricket was nothing more than an amateur sport before. Enjoy cricket struggling without the biggest brand and without the largest fanbase (more fans = more money). I read an article in cricinfo A World Cup without Pakistan? which stated the consequence(Loss) the ICC would face if pakistan does not qualify for the world cup 2019 as PAK matches are among the most watched in World cups ....... Ok now coming to the point what if India Pulls out of CT 2017? When ICC can't afford to loose PAK then how can they Afford to Let go IND!!!!! And people who say cricket would survive even without IND are RIGHT but in 2-3 Years it will be played only B/W AUS vs ENG...... just the simple fact of disassociating true indian cricket lovers and indian fans from BCCI would see the collective blogatarian humanity take the collective intellectual leap up a few more notches on the blog-evolution scale.....just passing food for thought...am indian ...never a fan of them BCCI cement heads....the day our board is privitised with more accountability...watch out world....cricinfo plz publish @ABC3 Against whom he wants to settle score on expense of his country fan @Getsetgopk - So now you are very concerned about the poor Indian kids, how considerate!! But please enlighten me on why BBL, CPL or whatever would be interested in paying for unknown Indian players. They would only want the top players who are already earning a fortune or more in the IPL. More than the poor Indian players, its the Pak players who have been vocal about not being able to participate in the IPL but that is beyond the control of BCCI. As to whether it is 10 or 20%, I don't think that is very relevant enough to apply my bright mind to. What is important is that the other boards are getting paid and yes, $1M is a big amount for just signing release letters and nothing else, and cannot be compared with what the BCCI makes. I'm not one to defend BCCI, but just feel that in this particular case, there is a lot of unjustified bashing going on, particularly from people with an axe to grind. Lets see how has the last laugh... Suppose revenues from India shrink? Then what happens? ICC cannot afford to ignore India. If they do it will be to their peril. @Jose..P. Lol. The beautiful is out to settle scores with his old friends and the rest of the poor world is caught in this drama and they don't even realize it yet and they are being dragged into this mess. This beautiful and the tall guy standing next to him in the photo will be put back in their rightful places soon. Wink Wink. The ball is still in BCCI court and BCCI has its own ways to counter attack this issue with its classic ways. Imagine, if BCCI says to ICC that India will not participate in champion's trophy....... Continuing... My main question for rest of the fans is following. The other two so called sinners of Big 3 (ECB, CA) are conveniently getting away with this and nobody is questioning them. They gained with their Big 3 proposal and stand to gain more in the new revised proposal. How is it that they get to walk away as saints in both cases while only one is being punished. If this cut is labelled as good faith for the greater good, then don't the ECB/CA need to contribute to that good faith. Are they deemed holier than thou in this deal and they get to keep the spoils and add more to their coffers. Don't they have have a role as more developed boards to offer more good faith? India has 10 to 20 times more infrastructure (grounds etc) to run/maintain on regular basis and still need to expand more across country compared to these 2 boards which are largely settled and not much scope for more development as they are already developed. Time to question ECB/CA MUZIKA_TCHAIKOVSKOGO ON FEBRUARY 6, 2017, 6:27 GMT
@DAISYCRIC: When I last checked, the GDP of Australia was about $ 1.2 trillion and India's was $ 2.3 Trillion. According to your calculations, 1.2 trillion is 10 times 2.3 trillion. Genius! ^ Maybe he meant in terms of GDP per person but then again I think that's about 28 times more using USA maths. @PWCRICKET With so much money ICC is not able to expand the cricket .But now u think without BCCI in survival mode they will expand ?From where the money will come to expand ?.Are u expecting that CA and ECB cut their revenue for expansion ? So what the other boards are saying is that they all want Indian money but they will still criticise and abuse India. And if india protests, they are the villian of the story. Now if that isn't sensible, I don't know what is. @abc3 on February 6, 2017, 8:23 GMT You wrote: I like the way Indians are uniting . I may add, Except one whose name is Beautiful - at least its Indian equivalent. Nobody likes a bully; and running a venture based on threats and fear, ultimately drives other participants to seek other ways. Necessity is the mother of invention. If India withdraws, it might be tough for a year or so, but the rest of the cricketing world will find a way. And if the ICC ostracises the IPL, then India will only have domestic players, and discards from the cricketing world. @CAR_TICKS England and Australia could survive without Indian money but so can Pakistan, as India doesn't play them. If India dropped out and kept all their revenue internally, (remember they wouldn't get anything from global tournaments or tours because they wouldn't be involved on a world stage) the rest of the world would just have to restructure to survive. It would have to embrace more nations, expand its reach, improve its marketing, become inclusive rather than exclusive and elite. In fact, it might just be good for cricket if it stops relying on the wealth of its sugar daddy and learns to stand on its own two feet. LOONYKIWIROCKER: I'm afraid that its you who needs to an understanding. Your argument is self defeating simply because if there was good money to be made by releasing players, BCCI would have by now issued millions of NOC's to its players. The fact that they haven't let a single player is very clear but its hard to help the one eyed ones. Your not sure whether its 10% or 20% but are preaching others about understanding 'some' facts, aren't you BRIGHT. Three cricket boards are paid 1M compared to how much the BCCI makes, thats not even half of a percent of what the IPL makes, again, AT THE COST OF OTHER BOARDS. But its a travesty of justice that fail to dawn on you that thousands of poor indian kids that could have made a decent living of BBL, CPL or PSL if they were given the just right to practice their trade in these events. Siding with the already rich BCCI against players in India trying to meet ends, thats got to be sad. Don't worry BCCI will be back with bang. Till then enjoy... good to see the starting point of demise of cricket in India. Now, India will be in process of finding another national sport, dumping cricket, as same as happened to hockey. I like the way Indians are uniting. For once we need to stand against this and question ICC for it's role. A useless body which failed in every way to grow the game and wasted all the money generated in 2 decades. Any businessman with common sense knows where the big markets are. A few in Europe (Russia, Germany, France). A couple in South America like Brazil/Argentina. A few in Asia like China. Instead of spreading the game to these big markets in a bigger way 2 decades ago, it wasted all the money on small markets where there is no future even if the current teams are ok. Those small markets (ireland/scotland just as an example no disrespect to them) cannot sustain on longer terms because of ECB poaching them and they don't have enough size to keep producing next gen players after current one's retire. They will all go ZIM/Kenya way. Good for a short while and mediocre and marginal longer term. Ire/Sco which were better few years ago than Afg are beaten black and blue by Afg off late The whole thing, all a deja vu.If people want to compare d game to FIFA,well, tmrw if any of the 3 most successful sides,Brazil, Germany or Italy, fail to qualify for a future world cup, the tournament, viewers and it's broadcasters wudnt be affected at all.They wud still be guaranteed massive viewership from Europe,Asia,Africa, d Americas and Australasia too.Whoever hosts wil still make a fortune.In cricket though, if any of the big 3 pull out, especially India, it wud amount to a huge loss,owing to limited viewership worldwide.Even if countries like Pakistan and Bd have a large number of viewers, their broadcasters wud never be willing to pay so much to secure rights.And there in lies d key, which wud always keep d big 3 at d top.Unless the game can ensure more sponsorship worldwide, the BCCI will have its way.Even a single threat of pulling out from a tournament, the others wil have to agree.As we know, deja vu all over again. OSMAN, are playing dumb or you really don't understand cricket economy? BCCI, Pl leave the international cricket..nobody wants to play with you and world is much better without you and agendas. Pl focus on IPL as well associated gambling and shadowing deals--already under scrutiny by your own top courts. If ICC strips India out of its membership then ICC still has CSA, ECB, and CA boards that will generate enough money to keep the ends meet *BUT* what BCCI will do to generate money? Make the Indian public watch Ranji Trophy or play IPL with retired international players? Who is gonna watch that for more than a season? Fijicricket-2ndFather...Dude you are living in a fools paradise. If you think world cricket is going to survive without India, just ask your cricket board (PAK), who is desperate to play India for last few years. Same thing will happen to all the boards if India decides not play for next 2 years! Just do the math if you are capable of. How much money does your board actually makes without ICC contribution. Only board which gives money is BCCI, rest all beg. Please post @ykvyas: Very well said sir. It appears that whatever BCCI does is bad in some people's opinions This reminds me of the headline ECB and CA given taste if their own medicine whenever BCCI flexes its muscles. I think this website has some bones to pick with BCCI, @Getsetgopk - IPL is a business at the cost of other cricket boards . It is not - the cricket boards are paid by BCCI for releasing their players to IPL. It is normally a percentage of the price at which the players have been bought (think it is 20% not sure though). For 2016, the cricket boards of NZ, SL and SA were paid US$ 1M for releasing their players. It would surely help to understand some facts first before posting blind comments. I can't pretend to follow all the wheeling and dealing that seems to be the ICC's favourite pastime. To me it is immensely tedious but to business types (and business types that think they are also a bit gifted politically... who might come to mind?) the one thing they seem good at is tearing things down and then working out what they will do next. Nothing is decided and the smoke seems as thick as ever. In the end, the BCCI will have its way - that much must be obvious - and it can only be hoped that the BCCI realises that magnanimity (ooh, business and magnanimity - there's oil and water!) creates goodwill and that in turn yields benefits down the line. Think karma, or think: as you sow, so shall you reap (depending on your cultural preference). Then things stand a chance of turning out harmoniously. Right now, people with genuinely human values seem to be in short supply among leaders everywhere. The ICC needs a person (could be a woman!) with impartial statesman-like qualities. Neel, That is a good Idea. Expand the IPL to 16 teams, and to two divisions. Drop out of ICC completely. BCCI don't need to run charities. A very good and brave article. Well done osama. I sincerely hope that BCCI suspends all international cricket for next two years and spend money internally to develop cricket infrastructure. Lets see what ICC does to generate money!! good, now ppl of India can be more productive. ecb and ca will be free riders, and CSA as well. they will crush the expansion of sport outside their two. overall in good direction for benefit of Indian household Not sure what good the courts have done to Indian cricket yet, but one thing seems certain, BCCI surely has been weakened at the ICC. At last justice came into play! I like the title very much, BCCI (India) given taste of its own medicine.' , a dream of cricket fans came to realization . Almost all of us were against the idea of 'Big 3' . Now the world will enjoy pure cricket. It's better that ICC should handle all the affairs itself being an autonomous authority. @Hamzasalman That's because state boards and stadium associations handle stadiums, and the richer ones do a very good job. I found conditions in Wankhede and Brabourne quite good. Bad conditions lead to complaints and hopefully force improvement. @Fkawaja What you are suggesting is not right. Even in big three model India took less than one third of what it contributed. India can and will make money just with IPL, of course it won't be same amount as with an international calendar - but it's just like pro football in US. We don't need international fixtures to be successful within ourselves but ICC absolutely needs India. One missed tour with India costs boards and the ICC 30 million dollars. Without this money who will find cricket for countries like SL, Pak, NZ, WI?? Just breacher they get more than Pak BD SL did not mean it is fair. BD has two international venues, SL 6 and Pak just 2 at the moment while India has 33 or more, same with domestic teams. Fair is a subjective term.. @HAMZASALMAN I think u live in some different planet .Crowd in india is excellent and every visiting team praise it . @Daisycric, my friend, India is the third largest economy in terms of GDP PPP in the world. Quite larger than UK and Australia. England and Australia can have played for way longer than India, that doesn't mean India doesn't make money for the game as of today does it? Ajay several Indian and Pakistani origin players played for England before 1947, but that's irrelevant. Secondly Indian people love IPL and we will watch it whether international players play or not. It is for Indians first; that's why per game only 4 or less foreign players allowed who will be and seen and a leg to play for an IPL side as it amounts to years of earning in 1 month. @Scandalboy if govt of India forbids the tournament, what on earth do you expect bcci to do? So you think we don't want to play Pak? Money wise it's the most lucrative game of any tournament anytime, it even makes business sense! Looks like many fans just want to hate on India while being subservient to ecb and CA? DAMU13579: Yes I agree with you that IPL is a business but just to complete your statement. IPL is a business at the cost of other cricket boards. When you buy a player for IPL, you dont just get the services that player provides, you also buy the interest of the cricket watching public of the country where that player comes from. The same interest which BCCI do not want to export to other countries when it blocks its players from playing in other T20 leagues like the BBL. Since your fellow India fans are way too keen on 'equity' they all seem one eyed when equity doesn't suit them. Is Cricinfo a neutral site? How come when the big 3 arrangement was passed , the headline was not like the world given the right treatement it deserves ? Totally unprofessional for cricinfo to publish such derogatory headlines against a particular country when we speak of a world body. Please publish if you are not biased. All this brought down to earth comments will disappear just like England will hammer India comments come April. NZ commercially wasted 3 months hosting Pak and Bang. Why don't you all get this fact. It's not the Indian or the International superstars who bring money to India. It's the Indian public, cricket frenzy public. Do you know the viewership of TNPL it was a massive success. Y What I find staggering is that for a country so much enamored with cricket, with such following and financial clout, how come the stadiums in India offer the poor spectators such low degrading environment in which to watch their favorite players! Your comment is as funny as it gets.
This is business NOT a charity.
Someone saying because BCCI is making more revenue so they should contribute more (which they are already).
This is communism and communism failed miserably!
Its like two people having same agriculture land, but one person puts all the efforts and make more money than the other, So, what communism exactly say is, the one who earned most should share his money to others . The person who earned more will lose his passion (why should he put lot of effort to generate more revenue at the end it goes to others pocket?) this is bad, who ever generates more, it's their money and BCCI has every right and this pathetic author seems so insecure ! Can India generate the income without playing against other countries? I dont think so. We are all interdependent. Everyone must understand that and accept a fair distribution of the ICC funds. India being the biggest contributor gets the biggest share and 290 million sounds fair. Countries like pakistran west indies srilanka and BD wont get a tenth of that I guess. @DAISYCRIC: When I last checked, the GDP of Australia was about $ 1.2 trillion and India's was $ 2.3 Trillion. According to your calculations, 1.2 trillion is 10 times 2.3 trillion. Genius! Great write up. ICC rightly flexing some muscles to get the job done. Great initiative. BCCI representative Vikram Limaye is said to have pointed out at the meeting - two wrongs don't make a right. So now they admit it was wrong before..... Fans need to wake up and stop claiming BCCI's domination of ICC. It's not BCCI but it's still ECB (MCC) who runs it from background. All boards got more share of revenue after Big 3 concept was implemented since a chunk was cut from ICC's pocket (indirectly MCCs pocket) and given to all boards. Earlier all boards got less than what it is now because ICC held on to most of it in the name of game development which they didn't do jack in last 2 decades. So BCCI cut them and re-distributed it all boards. Ofcourse it got major share since it contributed more. That is what irked ICC. Did ICC do anything to take the game to bigger financial markets like USA/China. No. It was individual boards who tried to create some interest by playing T20in USA etc. Not ICC. ICC kept wasting money on petty things on small markets which are a dead end. Look how ECB is looting by quoting 4 times the cost to host next champion trophy and WC. In a small country with less grounds easier logistics it cost 4times? BCCI was acting like a dictator. Now their wings has been clipped. It is good news for world cricket. No country should be given such sweeping powers in the future. All members should be treated with respect which was absent during India's dominance in ICC. getsetgopk on February 6, 2017, 4:12 GMT : Regarding your comment that ICC has afforded BCCI a lot of leeway on staging IPL with a cleverly crafted time window to conduct it, If BCCI decides to walk out of ICC, and organize IPL 1, 2 3, all the windows will remain open. In fact the wall itself may cease to exist. Regarding the remaining points you have raised, let me tell you, IPL is business. All other boards are free to have their own T20 leagues. Only way to alleviate poverty in poor countries is to take out wealth from richer countries and do charity to the poor countries. That is fair. Noble organizations like ICC are aiming to spread that idea!! Well that is how this idea sounds. Ask China, USA, UK, Germany to distribute their wealth to other countries. If taking out wealth generated by India to develop other boards is fair , then do this one too. ICC thinks they are doing a Robinhood here. Slow Claps. Really well said,sir! Pride and arrogance,for once brought to its knees. Well done ICC,keep up the good work. This new regime under Manohar with its governance,structural and other reforms will bring upon the much needed 'change' that our game so needs now. Take the bull by its horns if need be. All power to them! Pls post. First the Lodha panel of our H'ble Supreme Court... Now the ICC ....of all 'people'..!! The BCCI being given a real hard time of it,and much of it not w/o their own doing. Karma,as they say..... Pls post. @Daisycric - how ignorant you are look at SA players going for KOLPAK. Remember thr Kerry Packer era? International players will simply retire and play in IPL for the money. They don't need the NOCs. Just come out of the dark and see the day light. Right on spot Osman! except the fact that you forgot to mention. Promises to other boards to get votes from them and then play 1 off series or either back off later by saying its only MOU and not a legal agreement. I hope no BCCI fans commenting here can deny this fact. Isn't it? The ICC should realize that the BCCI might be weak in representation right now. But the strength of the BCCI- the Indian cricket fan is still around. And, the ICC should watch its step. Don't try to bully and push the Indian cricket watching public into a corner. Because if the BCCI again flexes its muscle, the ICC will cower with its tail between its legs. a well written article. finally cricinfo is producing some good stuff to read. thumbs up. Aus and england economy is 10 times more than india. both countries are 10 times richer than india. even before india started playing cricket they were playing. even tv ads india in india are mostly from companise belong to eng and aus. so basically its there money. india cricket is nothing without international cricket. ipl is flop without international players. bcci generate money mostly through ipl. if eng aus stop giving noc to there players then ipl will become ranji trophy type league where no one is interested to watch. Yep big three is now bigger 2 I really do not understand how the author of this article can put a heading for this article as bcci given taste of its own medicine can cricinfo take sides like this? has crickinfo proved that it is bcci which is at fault? this is a very complex issue and certainly one cannot have an easy answer to this type of situation but crickinfo is partial here letting someone write an article showing that bcci is at fault. Also i really do not understand in what way bcci is dominating in the cricket world, i do not see bcci having any kind of power in icc but still i read everyday some news as if it is bcci is controlling the icc etc etc, but i do not see any such power or influence bcci is having over icc, it is really a shame that inspite of bcci generating so much money but bcci still has no actual power in the world of cricket, it is really baffling to say the least, but the whole cricket world is showing the finger at bcci as if bcci is influencing icc, but it is not at all true. What most BCCI/India haters are failing to see is that the big 3 has not been abolished. The other boards barring the ECB and the ACB are still where they were before, relegated to the second rung. Only the financial gains of the BCCI have been reduced; what irony as that was the board that did most in spreading the game. This will come back hard on all those who baited BCCI. @shlok_Goyal it seems you are really doing well. It is time for your nighbours to start taking your money. LOL All this discussion is useless since politics will play its part and it will be resolved and fans here will be wondering why they wasted their time last two days posting endless messages. I believe there is only one outcome and it will be achieved in either of these two ways. One way is ICC will come and meet BCCI halfway and increase it's share close to 400M through negotiation. Second method is BCCI will come up with required votes to stall this and then arm twist ICC to pay close to 400M. They will achieve what they wanted either peacefully if ICC agrees or through second means. On a side note just for giggles, BCCI should come out with a message saying that they will agree to this new proposal out of good faith if ECB CA also agrees for a 34% cut out of good faith. Then let's see how fast these two boards will turn around and rush towards supporting BCCI. LOL. That would make my day as I want to see ECB's Giles face who is the biggest culprit in both past and current schemes. The author here seems to have a certain prejudice against the BCCI. His other articles seem to praise Pakistan a lot, so one can guess where it is coming from. Too bad cricinfo has started leaning into non-neutral/ biased authors. Start of a demise perhaps. Anyway, I hope the BCCI can work something out. Whatever contributions needed for development of cricket/yadda yadda should from every member's kitty equally, not thrust on few more than others forcing them into a loss. Don't see this arrangement lasting for long without majot repercussions. As an Indian cricket fan, I am incredibly happy that the ICC has finally been able to stand up to the BCCI. It doesn't make sense to give more money to an organization that is already flourishing. The new Test structure seems to be worse than the one earlier rejected (no clear path for the Associates move up divisions), but at least it's a step in the right direcftion. Few things here to consider, the 70% revenues come from the Indian market ONLY when India plays within the framework of the ICC. India would have long left the ICC if could generate such a sum on its own but clearly the worth comes from OTHER TEAMS playing in the ICC. Also, ICC has afforded BCCI a lot of leeway on staging IPL with a cleverly crafted time window to conduct it and keep all the proceeds of it. Arranging domestic comp is no issue but when it halts the international calendar then it becomes a problem. This staging of IPL, strictly speaking, is at the cost of the REST OF THE WORLD from which the rest of boards get virtually nothing. And there is the question of why Indian players are not allowed to play in other T20 leagues and be a cause of revenue increase just like foreign players play in IPL to add to IPL value? What about those loses and how to compensate for this injustice? I think the 14% share for BCCI is all the more reasonable when all things considered. @PHILLY.ROCKS: The reason for Sri Lnaka supporting BCCI is probably to ensure that they get the opportunity to tour India as many times as they used to get in the past and till now. Other subcontinental teams like PAK or BD do not get that opportunity. Touring a country like India is not only lucrative but also gives valuable experience to the players. So I think SL wants to ensure they always stay favourite for IND tour despite their current form which suggests they are no better than, WI, BD or PAK overall. BD might vote in favour of BCCI as a friendly neighbour if they hear something good from them I suppose. Actually IND can invite BD for a full tour instead of a one-off test after 17 years ! Since BD has improved a lot in all formats, financial loss may not be an issue as IND always anticipated. BCCI clout in the ICC is just like the USA's clout in the UN. They put in the lion's share of the money. What the US gets out of it is soft power and influence, not money. At least not directly. So too should India get influence over the conduct of the game, but not a direct proprtion of its money back, or the poorer participants won't be able to participate. I am speaking as a fan of Indian cricket. This is fun. Apart from Australia and to some extent England, everybody depends on Indian tour to sustain. And the next two years, India tour away to South Africa, New Zealand and West Indies. Let's see if they continue to hold their positions. Not to mention the champions trophy in England this summer. have fun while it lasts guys!!! Congratulations!!! Enjoy the thrill before it lasts. The author seems to be more happy than anybody else here, I don't know for what reasons! ICC cannot do any monkey business taking advantage of administrative uncertainties in the BCCI. Indian public will not tolerate it. If Supreme Court can intervene now, public interest litigation can be initiated against BCCI officials again if they accept any unfair distribution of revenue. First of all, the head line is mischievous and likely to bite one on the backside. Secondly, killing the golden goose might give you momentary thrill, but will hurt you on the long run. If the highest revenue generating party (BCCI) loses motivation to maximize revenue, it doesn't matter how much the other ICC parties pretend to earn in the future, it will all come down crashing. The formula would have been to keep BCCI happy and and ride the wave. If it is all about the thrill of revenge (sorry Samiuddin, may be headline wasn't your idea), sadly everyone else will take a cold dip. I think there will be a BCCI coup in a few years to straighten things up. I would be really amused to see if this had happened to Aus or Eng. Well what can you expect from them anyways.Take it or leave it. India rules the game of cricket today. They have every right to get a lions' share of revenue. Without India, this game is lame as it gets. Cricinfo, pls publish. As for analogies and metaphors...It's like the guy who performs more gets a higher pay package vs equitable distribution irrespective of who contributes more. India deserves to get more as they literally fund cricket at the moment. Despite all talks of corruption... I think these set of changes might impact cricket in the long run. Don't know what grouse Manohar holds against BCCI but it's shameful. His act is a heinous crime against the country. This is simply ridiculous. Whole of ICC mulls about BCCI for funding 70% of the revenue is generated by BCCI n still clipped its wing. No hard feelings for associate nations if dey wanna grow others will help. What's so wrong with PCB. Always seeking out trouble for itself. Time to take a stand against this verdict. To all those saying bcci pulling out of icc events wont have much effects, please refer to the numbers of WC 2003 (finalists), 2007 (out first round) and 2011 (winners). That should give you guys some context. There's a reason the 2007 is considered a flop. And dont change tracks to performance here. Remember, we're only discussing revenue that bcci brings in. first failure of so called SC selected BCCI administrators Why on earth SL is supporting BCCI? All these developments does not bode well for the game of cricket . It is common sense that the maximum contributor should get better returns . It is something like the maximum share holder in a company gets the maximum dividend . ECB and CA are the second and third biggest benificiaries and they will try to get hold of the chaos and earn more . If they are unable to gain control , they may even side with BCCI to ensure their well being . The truth is that the game cannot sustain at the global level without India's contribution . Most of the ICC full members are not self reliant and there will be no option for them but to reverse their original stand . It is almost a game of chess . Every board knows if India drops out of any tournament, there will be a massive loss in broadcasting revenue. While BCCI has strong armed ICC in the past they have also helped various team achieve test status and develop as cricketing nations, BD and SL being such examples. I wonder why everyone is against BCCI demanding a higher share of revenue because they bring in 70% of the money - how is this wrong? BCCI is not demanding 70% of the money, just a higher percentage and rightfully so. Will you be happy if you earned 100k a year for your company and you got paid 10k, same as everyone else? There has to be some parity between revenue generation and the share of it you keep. Yes, cricket will be impacted in India should we stop international tours, but I am quite IPL will pull various folks from other countries who would rather play 1 season of IPL than an entire year of international cricket, it's far easier and they make money. Cricket will disappear in other countries. most guys keep asking how is india generating money for everyone else? plain and simple. SA announced T20 Leage and posted 50% of it in Indian Media (in indian dialy's) for sponsorship and ownership of their team. Did you guys no follow about pool in TV revenue? every market tries to sell to indian market first? even UAE games between PAK and Englishmen's are looked at pak market first then indian market second even while india is not playing. its a fact 70% of all the ICC sponsorship is related to indian market and the day indian team fails those 70% of money is lost on sponsor. Try telling pepsi and hondo and other big sponsors. they are global brands but when it comes to cricket its all about indian audience and their might to buy product from them while watching circket events. circket would go down okay if indian quits. but why would india quit did packer quit or he just simply bought the best of the worlds for his tv veiwership? Hope BCCI comes back hard on the other teams when it matters most. This model is so unfair to Indian fans and indian cricket. BCCI needs to teach a lesson or two to ECB, PCB and CA. I'm an Indian and I see the actions of BCCI and the majority of Indian posters here akin to the boy in gully cricket who refuses to accept he is out because he owns the bat. The rest indulge him until somebody else can afford a bat and that day they send him home crying. I agree India contributes the majority of revenue but when you start using that to bully others with nonsense like the big three initiative, people will remember how you treated them. So to the fans as well, remember how you treat other fans when your fortunes are up because when you crash down to earth, they'll keep kicking you when you're down! a game that has existed for 150 + years and as usually Indians make it about them. Yep it was only India that grew this great game we all love. Funniest part is it's the fans that cry about the board constantly, but not now ironically, when the shoe fits??? The big picture is cricket not a single country it's a global brand like Nike or Addidas. All countries need to work together! Pls publish @BLAHBLAH1234567: Other countries without cricket = no change. India without cricket = ???. Many of the people are saying that BCCI is above the game. Ok other countries will stop touring India. The game will die out in the other countries most likely there won't be enough revenue. The fans can enjoy inter-state competitions. Whos gonna be the winner here? The whole of sports is based on making money, sportmen don't work for peanuts and donkey rides in Pakistan, ever heard of Packer world series cricket in 1970's. Ever heard of English premier league football, Indian cricket is what European football is to the World, without India cricket revenues globally would fall every great Australian and South African wants to play IPL, every West Indian wants to play IPL over playing for West Indies national side ever wandered why that is? People should think before typing nonsense comments on cricinfo. Every sport is judged on the money its top stars get paid, fact, fact, fact. @ESPN23406671: It can't be that difficult to figure how which member is responsible for how much revenue. Why not have independent auditors determine that? I suspect that most members will not like the numbers they see. Too few countries play cricket, and there are only three big economies. English and Aus revenues are divided somewhat between cricket and other sports. That makes India a real giant, where no other game is that popular. Countries depend on India tours for financial solvency of their boards. The whole of your statement is spot on and completely true, excellent comment. cricket isn't growing as a game... that's the biggest worry.... name a single team in the last decade which has grown...???? Ireland and Afghanistan barely play international cricket to be called progress..... @NURSERY_ENDER --- to know the sums ask yourrself and the fans and governing body of team u follow why r they so desperate to play us Cricket would not die just because the BCCI pulled out. India can play their own insular tournaments, like the Americans do in baseball and basketball. They can market it internally and if the rest of the world wants to buy the product, and its irritating ad breaks, noise and commentary, then fair enough. Meanwhile, the rest of the world can continue to play cricket, continue with domestic leagues, continue bilateral and global tournaments, get better at global expansion, become better regulated, get rid of corruption, etc. The current ICC system is like a FIFA for world cricket, but like FIFA the ICC is not transparent financially, and it suffers from one huge problem - there is an elephant in the room , the BCCI.
In 2016 England played 17 test matches , 7 were at home. None of these were ashes matches and even the India matches were played in front of large , empty stadiums. Only Ashes Test matches are financially worthwhile.
England players are totally committed full time to playing International matches for ENG or in IPL matches for BCCI's financial benefit, and are seldom visible to English cricket supporters.
If the BCCI intends to take the loins share of the revenue and use other associations players in its IPL, then it would more economic for ECB to withdraw from ICC circus and only play viable bilateral matches, ODI and T20 WC competitions.
Better for England to play fewer, competitive matches their supporters want to see. ECB should develop English club cricket, like the BCCI developed IPL GR8GAUR ON FEBRUARY 5, 2017, 18:39 GMT If population of India is the reason for BCCI being heavyweight then let me know why ain't BCB 2nd or 3rd richest board? Why PCB wasn't second richest before 2009? ... because population of India is also richer than population of BD and PAK ... has enough purchasing power to buy expensive tickets, Indian corporations also have enough financial muscle to even sponsor events in West indies .... Further indication that cricket is in a slow fade the world over. ESPN23406671 ON FEBRUARY 5, 2017, 20:24 GMT It can't be that difficult to ..... Very well said ... Unfortunately there is hatred which is blinding the vision and blocking the better sense ,,, some India/BCCI haters are rejoicing in a victory on paper, without realizing the consequences ... good, you had your say, now let us get serious and find a midway .... A time has come for BCCI to seriously consider developing each of its member states to a test playing status, instead of developing other smaller nations like Ireland, Afghanistan. The potential is huge for states like Maharashtra, Gujrat, Karnataka and Tamilnadu who are larger than other test palying nations! That way it will have more voting power in the international level. SANKARVASUDEVAN ON FEBRUARY 5, 2017, 18:27 GMT @GLADIATOR1976 What is the revenue generated when SA and SL play each other in 2 series compared a series each of SA vs India and SL vs India ? Not good enough to feed the few Lions in South African safari ..... It can't be that difficult to figure how which member is responsible for how much revenue. Why not have independent auditors determine that? I suspect that most members will not like the numbers they see. Too few countries play cricket, and there are only three big economies. English and Aus revenues are divided somewhat between cricket and other sports. That makes India a real giant, where no other game is that popular. Countries depend on India tours for financial solvency of their boards. India will not get its 'fair' share, i.e. the full percentage of revenue it generates. It will accept less, but how much less is the question. Any draconian reductions, as the current numbers appear to be, will not be acceptable. And the simple fact is that India can't be bullied into accepting such a number. This fact has no relationship to the internal problems within BCCI, whose days thankfully appear to be over. Simply ignoring the fact that India pays most bills will not get you anywhere. @WORSTEVER There is a term called FACTS, ever heard about it champ? Don't change history cause SA did visit India first after re-admission. Indian govt should ban telecast of upcoming champions trophy in India. ICC and ECB will quickly realize the power of BCCI. Other countries without cricket = no change. India without cricket = ???. Many of the people are saying that BCCI is above the game. Ok other countries will stop touring India. The game will die out in the other countries most likely there won't be enough revenue. The fans can enjoy inter-state competitions. Whos gonna be the winner here? NURSERY_ENDER: You want a source? It was mentioned on a cricinfo article back in 2014. Stay salty. Please publish, cricinfo. Sepp Blatter also thought he will be king forever, as much powerful as he was all Kingdoms fall. Cricket will rally on without India. The world deserve cricket at the Olympics and growning the sport will stand in food stead for T20 in the Olympics like 7s rugby. WORST#1SIDEEVERINDIA: Cricket is a global powerhouse as it is viewed worldwide. South Africa's first international match after being reinstated was against India. Cricket without India and BCCI would be nothing but an amateur sport like it was in the past. In the past, cricket was only for the upper class. Afghanistan as a cricket team would never have existed if ECB and Cricket Australia were the powerhouses instead of BCCI. Please publish, cricinfo. CRICFAN51688049, I agree with you ( -The fact still remains that any ICC tournament is never ever going to be a success without participation from India. ), but at the same time if India alone play a world cup, will that generate money? IPL is sucessfull because players from Aus, WI, SA, SL, Eng are playing there. What I was telling that India is losing only 20 M$ per year from this new model, where there income from bilateral tour is 320 M$ per year, so this loss is not that fatal. New model will help them to reduce the hatred from all over the world.
Besides don't forget if nobody comes to India, then they are not going to earn any money.... @NURSERY_ENDER You want figures? Watch video clippings of PAK news channels and see what they say about BCCI. @ Worst#1siderforever : SAF first international match upon return was against India at Calcutta an ODI match. Now don't start blaberring that it's only Test cricket return which counts and not odis. If you are still not convinced check out for records or speeches from Ali bacher . It's comments from guys like you which are laughable than the uproar from our end. To all those indian cricket fans who keep talking about how India generates the most money. They miss the point. It is not about money but how cricket can move forward with proper ICC governance. At the moment cricket is suffering because there is no structure NEUTRAL_CRICKFAN ON FEBRUARY 5, 2017, 17:59 GMT
imagine world cricket without India and its massive support ! God bless cricket ! ^ Cricket would be just fine without India, same as it would continue without any other team. Actually South Africa's first test series after reinstatement was in the West Indies and they played a number of teams in the next few years, Indians taking credit for SA's return to cricket is laughable.
And cricket is not a global powerhouse, it's a little known sport outside of a few countries. England and Australia shamelessly ganging up against BCCI just becuase they would be getting larger share of the pie as per the new model. So BCCI has every right to defend its share which is being reduced by 300℅. Imagine if this happened to England or Australia, they would have to quit cricket fore ver. @abc3 - To add more to your comment - Do these people think that England or Australia would suddenly start touring Pakistan, Bangladesh and Zimbabwe? Heck if the situation in the middle east deteriorates a little bit further they would even stop playing in the UAE. They want India to cut down on IPL (by messing up with IPL window), but they wouldn't compromise on Ashes or shorten it to let Test championship and 13 team ODI league happen. They were the biggest supporters of 10 team WC proposal as well. If population of India is the reason for BCCI being heavyweight then let me know why ain't BCB 2nd or 3rd richest board? Why PCB wasn't second richest before 2009? @SHOEB_TEXAS: The fact still remains that any ICC tournament is never ever going to be a success without participation from India. Sponsors will run away if India is not part of any tournament , so definitely a great amount of earning for ICC is coming from India . ELECTRIC_LOCO_WAP4_IS_DELUDED ON FEBRUARY 5, 2017, 18:16 GMT
NURSERY_ENDER: BCCI generates that money through TV rights. The money is in the Indian fanbase all around the world. ------------------------------ So you can't show me where the figure of 70% is documented. Thought not. And I see another poster has plucked a figure of 85% out of thin air. While this equal distribution of the revenue looks good on paper, it is unsustainable without BCCI as there would be no revenue. Three or four boards are in such dire straits that they would be immediately forced to shut the shop. Only Ashes will continue and maybe SA would scrap along loosing lots of its players on the way. BCCI would survive without ICC and may even survive without int'l stars playing IPL. Do you know more people watched a local domestic league(TNCL) than Big Bash? And that too when none of the foreign or current Indian int'l players were playing. Come to the terms with reality people, all are not equal in the world(Ask the US if in doubt). There is a reason communist regimes all over the world suddenly disappeared in the 90s. Giving up money to the person who isn't making it only makes him complacent. Anyway in June there would be an elected BCCI body and everything will change once again. Don't start celebrating too early. @GLADIATOR1976
What is the revenue generated when SA and SL play each other in 2 series compared a series each of SA vs India and SL vs India ? @SAIFULLAH FAROOQI Being an Indian fan I would like that to happen quickly, even if its a misconception let me see whether minus India affects ICC health or not. NURSERY_ENDER: BCCI generates that money through TV rights. The money is in the Indian fanbase all around the world. Sooner or later. BCCI will hit other members hard, where it hurts most. Better sense did not prevail. Politics will start soon. SL and ZIm already on their side. Wont take long to get BD and ENG. And if BCCI makes some real advances to PAK for games in the dessert, it will be game, set and match, in favor of BCCI, and mind you, it will be with vengeance. Bad news for cricket for sure. WORST#1SIDEEVERINDIA: The first team to invite South Africa to play a series after their reinstation. The team that regularly plays Bangladesh and Sri Lanka to aid their development. The team that helps Afghanistan and Nepal despite having no obligation to do so. The team that hasn't hosted Asia Cup since 1991 so Bangladesh and Sri Lanka can develop. Turned cricket into a global powerhouse. Made T20 popular so that cricket can eventually become an Olympic sport and expand to other nations. India also gave other Asian teams hope that they can rise out of their colonial past after India won the 1983 World Cup, thus changing the landscape of cricket in the subcontinent. India were also the first team to use DRS and wanted consistency of technology whilst Australia refuse to reveal secrets of hot spot on grounds of defence . Oh and Australia refuse to play Bangladesh citing security reasons when other nations have no such problem. @Worst#1sideeverindia- read the comments and you can see what India did, now what did Aus or Eng do - except playing Ashes forever. There as useless to the world of cricket as they have always been, at least Eng provided the game... BCCI will get (450M -290M) 160M $ less in a span of 8 years, meaning 20 M$ less per year. But this money is generated from ICC tournaments. BCCI and all other boards are earning money from Bilateral tours also. Actually BCCI 's main income is from the Bilateral tours, where they earn around 320 M$ a year. So why BCCI is crying that loud! Because of the financial model, they earn huge hatred from other cricket playing countries. I think it is better for them. Without other teams do the bcci make those revenues on their own. If they play sri lanka every season will they make the same money if they played sa or aus or england. Without the opponents they make nothing. They need the restto make money. Why should they then receive the bulk of the money. Grow the global game. The bcci is just their for themselves. These are bad times for cricket where one board is dictating terms for money only. The development of cricket is ignored. ICC is not govering like a governing body should. Result we have a rag tag structure where bilateral series keep getting played by just 3 countries. The ICC needs to depart from BCCI and start bossing it. BCCI cannot be allowed to get away with breaking promises on the MOU. Cricket is desperate for governance. Wake up ICC imagine world cricket without India and its massive support ! God bless cricket ! Okay whoever says revenue shdnt be based on the generated revenue, here is a thing. Let India pull out of Champions Trophy and calculate the exact revenue generated without India and then we come to fair conclusion. Certain boards don't even have facilities to run matches in their home condition But wants more revenue from BCCI pool. That's disgusting. If those boards want charity, no problem. Let them make a formal solicitation and as We, Indians, are known for our magnanimity and Generosity, we would not mind to give them few millions as Charity. Jus lik BCCI did to Dubai when IPL was conducted in there. Bt this kind of financial system is making a mockery of everything. We generate more revenue and we get more share. When Lion hunts,it gets the major shares and Foxes and Hyaena get the left over. Why is it so hard to understand? Generated revenue is directly proportional to ICC share. CRICFAN97120683 ON FEBRUARY 5, 2017, 14:27 GMT India has done more to the development of cricket than England SA and Australia combined. ^ Such as? You all can see how conveniently Eng/Aus (the other two architects of Big 3) switched sides to go against BCCI. They switched sides because they were not getting any cuts but they are getting more revenue than previous formula. Let's cut their share also by 10% (similar to BCCI's 10% cut) and then see how quickly they rush back to support BCCI. This has been the root cause of problem which the ignorant fellow Asian fans don't understand. It's always been BCCI who has acted as balancing power against Eng's power hungry board. It has been BCCI who advanced your cause and put a check to Eng from time to time (be it granting BD's international status or SA's reintroduction to World cricket by inviting them first while rest of world had wait and see attitude). SL was in deep financial trouble post 2011 and it was BCCI who got you out of the mess by arranging No. of tours and not Eng. Fellow Asian fans should realize who your true ally has been in the past. I believe it's better if ICC will give BCCI more money share than other boards to end this problem let's say 1.5 times than other cricket boards.Let's say If they are allotting other boards 1 million than give BCCI 1.5 million but the question is if that makes BCCI happy or they want more. I understand BCCI generates more money than any other board but still they should not ask for lion share at least for the love of the game they have to be reasonable about that.End of the day we all love this gentleman's game and love it to spread all over the world I hope. India have been great for cricket. India have been bad for cricket. The Big Three system was terrible. The New system smacks of revenge. Surely a percentage of revenue can go into a pool and percentage to the team's competing. Fixtures should be on a league basis. Not on a manipulative as we choose basis. Cricket has a lot to learn from other mainstream sport. BCCI contributes 85% of revenues and it asked for only a 1/4th of that revenue. Other boards were getting much much more than what they contribute even in that formula. One has to remember that BCCI has 10 times more grounds (cricket grounds) and much bigger infrastructure that it has to maintain than other boards. So that is justified against smaller boards who have just 5 international grounds and a few local grounds that it maintains. There's only one lion who does the hunting. But the hyenas have ganged up this time. The lion is a bit weak as a result of fights with other lions in its territory. Will the lion keep its prey or will the hyenas steal? quote: There is no publicly available research, academic or otherwise, that breaks down the exact nature of cricket's economy, of where the money comes from for ICC events, ----------------------------------------------- Yet BCCI apologists repeatedly mention a figure of 70% 'generated' in or by India. That must have come from somewhere, surely, and not just be a large figure plucked out of thin air. I hope this happens and then cricket in India becomes just another game. Cricket might die a very slow death because of lack of interest by majority, but then it's not superior to our national game. At the very least, other exciting sports like hockey, kabaddi, tennis, football etc. will grow. Tired of cricket hogging all the limelight in India. I'm a cricket crazy Indian like anyone, but it pains me to see cricketers getting pampered so much with insane amounts of money and awards such as bharat ratnas and finally it doesn't even do anything remotely good to the society to inspire a generation to take up sports as a career. Cricket has monopolized the sports in the country and something like this is a welcome move. It might bring us to our knees and respect other sports a bit more. For a country with 1.3billion, there should be market for many games. There is no such thing like BIG 3 in cricket. Its just BIG-1 that is BCCI. FACE IT. @ shehryar_ashraf
BCCI is NOT getting 70-80% ! It is making 70-80% revenue.
Oh God! Finally some sense returns to ICC. The BiG 3 was a sham arrangemennt driven mainly by the BCCI resulting from the success of IPL which has gotten to their heads. Do u think FIFA or any other. Sports body works ona similar Big 3 framework. Thre answer is NO. Because the sport cannot develop under such a model in other member nations. if 70-80 percent of the revenue will go to india, how on earth is cricket supposed to spread globally?
how is the global health of cricket improved with mere peanuts given to the associates?
good to see pcb supporting this, remember pcb only board to stand up to big three, Cricket revenue should be distributed evenly, if this is a basic simple logic, India will need a lions share to develop cricket facilities at all corners of India, from where the money is coming from.
BCCI cant ignore it, ICC shouldn't ignore it! If others think that they can corner India to plunder, the wealth generated at grass root levels of India, they need to wake up!! @CheeseVanTonder BCCI was the first to introduce DRS. How ignorant you could be with knowing the facts in the first place.
They introduced and stopped due to horrendous mistakes it made! And a suggestion, please watch latest matches, BCCI is NOW Using DRS.! @Zamin: You are right that cricket was played even b4 India became powerful and cricket would still go on even if India is pushed out but you missed out a point that times have changed now. Finances have become more important. Players have to support their families and u cannot go and say to them that since we are not having that much money we can pay u only less as compared to before. They will start looking at other venues were they can play the trade and earn and support family. You are weak others seize the opportunity.. Don't you think, the tables will change... Forever Indian Cricket (BCCI) will be the strongest and in times, it will nail it again... Haha....no answer to BCCI.....these new admins are not some noobs.....they are CEOs, Analysts.....those guys count cents when it comes to allocating budgets within their companies.....lol do you think they will forego 300mil....btw BCCI is not stealing...they are already helping ICC.....they will make sure the ICC answers them.....comedy guys these below commenter's are..... @Udendra SLC has been such dire staits couple of years ago, BCCI had to loan them money to pay player salaries. Situation hasn't improved dramatically either. Also BCCI agreed to tour Srilanka and helped them out. SLC needs BCCI, not the other way around. Takes me back a few years, to an interview of Dean Jones in a Sydney newspaper. He mentioned that it was d BCCI which brought 80% of the revenue of the ICC, he had no qualms about d greater share being offered to them too.Its more or less a matter of personal opinion, but I guess given that the BCCI now gets about 20% of the shares, cutting down further from that wud obviously bring about stiff resistance.And most likely, wud remain a fairytale. No agreement is for ever. If Big 3 arrangement can be undone, this one too - even though not finalized yet- can be undone. The administrative uncertainties in BCCI will not last for ever. May be, it is too early for author to celebrate. Really disappointed and disgusted of SLC not voting for this. hehe great article from pakistani author. India wont play bilateral series with pak unless Indian people want it to. Simple, no amount of 'points' or 'rankings' will make that change. Please Indian fans, lets not get ahead of ourselves. Cricket was being played even when India was not such a financial powerhouse. Cricket will continue to be played albeit with a lot leas glitz. Tours will still go on albeit a bit less. I wouldnt mind a little less cricket, with all the domestic leagues its becoming overkill (BCCI given taste of its own medicine)..So that is one way to look at it. The other way to look at it is, BCCI is asking to get scientific data to determines its share. The difference is BCCI will persist while last time the other countries gave up. Nothing wrong about BCCI protecting its interests. If other countries weren't able to do, too bad for them. The new arrangements are not going to last. Simple reason is that they are trying to treat all boards equally irrespective of the revenues generated by them. Utterly mindless. @RUSTYRYAN for a country with a population of 1.3 billion, you shouldn't be bragging about having a larger crowd than any other country. And to be fair we would still have the same amount of crowd numbers as India would if psl had been held in pak... @Lakhshitha Jayakody. I do not think that would be the right comparison. Soccer is played globally and cricket by a few country. Secondly, as a matter of discussion, if BCCI pulls out, IPL model is a hit. Whats to stop them extending it. More often than not players and people are driven to securing themselves financially. It's become more a business aspect than love for the game. If you will have the cream playing in IPL how many would be interested in having the side dish rather than the main course. It's not about right or wrong. I am keen to know what the English and Aussie boards will make in the new model. Surely they will not take a cut, unless it is marginal. Very good writeup Osman Samiuddin, but remember three things
1. Icc will not be able to pass any resolution in April without BCCI consent.
2. BCCI is not going to give its consent even in April.
3. India will not (must not) play Pakistan (in bilateral series) in near future.
Good writeup anyway. Kudos Well...it is simple
BCCI has to maintain 70x stadiums and other spending's to earn 70x revenue for ICC.
Another country which spends 3x and earns 3x for you.
You want to distribute ICC profit equally between them....give me a break. It iis factually incorrect to say that Big-3 formula didn't have any rational basis. It was clearly based on the proportion of the revenue generated by the respective boards labelled as contributions . India's contribution (paid by advertisers in India) was within the range of 70-85%. Yet, at the draft stage itself India greed to have 22.9%. Of course, setting aside 30 % for ICC's use an ear-marked 10% for Assocites, to be spent in addition to ICC had already been doing or them. The only area of dispute was about the Ad spending of a few Indian units of MNCs. Even there, BCCI compromised to minimize the conflict. That is how the original share of 22.9 % came down to 20.3%. Certainly done in all good faith equity Satire is always welcomed by the readers of this forum. But it will be nice if facts are not brushed aside. Please. @Cricketchat you're wrong. BCCIs power comes from the fact that it's international tour generates a massive amount of money to the host board because the TV rights are sold for an enormous sum, which is because of the fact that India provides more eye balls for cricket than the rest of the world combined. The broadcasters are ready to shell out big bucks since they can broadcast to a larger crowd and of course the advertisement revenue. So no, other boards can't make as much money without India. And for those who claim no foreign players will play IPL, even today a lot of top international cricketers doesn't play in IPL, has that reduced the popularity of IPL? Mind you there will be sufficient fringe players who would happily retire from international cricket and play the IPL. Remember Kolpak anyone? @cricket chat : And what would you say if the same players choose to play IPL instead of their own country and retire from intl cricket like abott retiring from SAF and joined Kolpak. They will be getting more money if they represent Jharkhand or Chattisgarh.. At present, the guile of BCCI is missing due to a recent restructuring. The prowess of revenue generation will ultimately drive the businesses of the game.
Everyone is talking about international players, spirit of the game, uphandinshnes and this and that. All poetry. Academic.
Business is like war. And to the victor goes the spoils. @Osman - Fair article in pointing out the similarities between the Big 3 takeover. You're right in the fact that cricket hasn't figured out it's finances precisely. In fact, as an experiment, this is why I back Ind forfeiting participation in the Champions Trophy later this year. This will help us figure out the exact correlation between ICC's finances and Ind's contribution. That way, both parties will be in a better position to negotiate keeping ground realities in mind. If the ICC can maintain it's revenues without too much of a fall, they're justified in their cut. If Ind's contribution is too high to ignore..... Well, pay up. @Fiji cricket others : can you please identify which is that country which is going to help thrive world cricket in our absence. If you can identify that country then please proceed. Look BCCI is not stealing your money it's only asking for a fairer or higher share in the profit because accept it or not more money comes from here only. Even in a company setup among the shareholders the persons who have higher no of shares are alloted more profits even if he just buys the shares and does not contribute anything to companies growth. BCCI in the other hand is dng it's best to help other nations even the other country players boards are been compensated wen they play the IPL. Will the other domestic T20 tournaments do the same. @Fijicricket Care to explain how cricket will thrive in other parts of the world without India. Our board generates 80% of the income to the ICC which is used to develop cricket all over the world. What exactly would happen to the boards that rely on the ICC for funds? The only two countries that could function independently are England and Australia. I guess we'd have a series of Ashes 5 times a year indefinitely along with local t20 leagues all over the world played by the other countries. These are just the financial repercussions. Cricket generates more interest in India than all the other nations combined. To be brutally honest cricket is a dying sport even in countries like England and Australia where rugby,football and other sports are slowly taking its place. @CRICKETCHAT if other board gave NOC then BCC paid money to that money also .they compensated both Players and board with huge money.you can see 750 players are registered for IPL.BCCI made life of players in return also.look what happened to cairns even though he was top all rounder .If board dont give nOC then take them as free lancer or kolpak deal.there are ways :). @Saifullah Farooqui We can't do that. We have to thrash Pakistan in every world cup even if it means giving away hundreds of millions of dollars of our hard earned money. @ CRICKETCHAT Nate you are correct in your observation but if the players can leave for KOLPAK deals,then they surely can leave for IPL deals too,coz IPL contract offers a larger amount of money than a KOLPAK cobtract. There is no denying BCCI's power and clout came from the riches of IPL, not due to international matches alone. IPL wouldn't be where it is today without the presence of top cricketers from all over the world who provided the charisma and appeal that drew crowds and the subsequent corporate dollars. Imagine if other boards didn't issue NOC to their players to play in IPL. How much money would a domestic T20 match between Jharkhand vs Chhattisgarh with only anonymous local players generate? The article by Osman is like a team claiming to have won the game after taking a 100 run lead by lunch on Day 3! Hang on, the game is not over yet, BCCI will reply! For those who are saying india should pull out from champions trophy. I want to say them why only champions trophy, pull out from 2019 world cup and t20 world cup as well. In fact just stop playing cricket. I guess the author should write more bout the risk involved in having a cricket match in Pakistan rather than mocking BCCI. When last time Zim toured Pakistan, there was a blast jus close to the ground. So pls focus on your issues rather than jumping into BCCI. BCCI Ranji matches would draw more crowds than international matches in some of the grounds in our neighbours' country. We generate more revenue and we get more shares. As simple as it is. Others can do what a Black hole normally does in Outer space. Euphemising it so that they don't ve any reason to block my comment!!! @cheesevantonder why on earth would BCCI accept DRS in the form it was presented 9 years ago. India used it for Srilanka series in 2008 and decided against because it was not acceptable in that form. Well, even today it's not consistently implemented across the globe as the Hotspot technology is not available outside England and Australia because the technology is classified. And also the playing boards have to pay for it as ICC won't. India asked for a consistent DRS with advancement in ball tracking technology (Ian Bell's lbw decision in 2011 WC). FYI it was Anil Kumble as a member of ICC technical committee worked with MIT and got the required improvement in ball tracking technology. With his insight and assurance BCCI has accepted DRS. For the record I still don't like the DRS in current form. It should be completely taken out of players control and umpires should ensure right decision is made. For God's sake they spend so much time checking if the ball had touched boundary rope, why can't they do that for a leg before or a nick. And btw, it was India who took the initiative and invited SA to play in India in 1991 for their return admission to cricket. India has done more to the development of cricket than England SA and Australia combined. You are the man Sami bhai ! You wrote my heart out. Kudos to you. @CRRKIRAN: In your dreams only. The world cricket will thrive and improve if the said team is not there. Nobody wants that team and their board to have power over others. Bye bye and Cheers!!! The game of cricket will grow without BCCI also. The administrators owes the game game does nt owes to them. Don't get what the fuss is about.We all know BCCI will flex its muscles and get what tgey want.If you are terming this as a medicine,be ready for an injection from BCCI once a stable commity takes office.India contributes 70% and BCCI is right to demand more.Those referring that cricket is a global game should remember if BCCI pulls out of ICC events and plays its own domestic league in process,ICC's pot would be empty.This is nothing but Manohar trying to extract revenge for persobal vendetta. People we need to understand Cricket is not football. If Brazil quits FIFA, that's not the end of global football or FIFA. In simple terms, that will be the end of Brazilian football legacy. But in Cricket if India quits ICC, that's basically the end of modern money making cricket we all argue about. Just do the maths. More than 75% of global cricket audience is Indians. Game over. Do not forget, 2007 WI Cricket world cup fail to return the money, simply because India's first round exist. Let's see how cricket and the other boards fare if BCCI decide to pull out of everything. Remember that it is Indians who make up the majority of the cricketing fanbase and that's potential revenue lost. It ain't over till the fat lady sings. BCCI will emphatically get the support they need and throw this nonsensical charity type model out of the window. BCCI will be the last one laughing, and as they say, he who laughs last laughs the most! Till then you can ROFL however much you want to @ CHEESEVANTONDER - BCCI was the first member to use DRS in international fixtures. get your facts right. it stopped using DRS after many decisions went against india when reviewing LBW decisions. and not mention the unwillingness to share the know how technology by the ip holders of the drs and unfair charge for DRS tech for indian fixtures in contrast with other international fixtures ( irony, because of massive indian market size) and not to share the hotspot tech which is part of DRS when india is the host ( reason - govt of australia prohibited sharing of military grade tech with india). so there were legit reasons why BCCI stopped using DRS. but it started using DRS now,( after so many negotiations ofcourse). If the only thing which is stopping the plan to scrap big three is revenue then icc should revisit these figures. Bcci is a bit justified in asking for more shares. Big three wasnt about money alone. It was to keep control to three boards. So fir betterment of icc and cricket if its just the revenue share which is coming in way for this new proposal then icc should consider giving more share to bcci. In 2014, the ICC purse was divided based on the contribution from each member countries. India contributes about 85% of ICC revenue and the other 114 countries contribute about 15% or roughly close to this ratio. In fact BCCI was not getting 85% in the 2014 model, because of principles of good conscience common sense and simplicity , enabling every Member to grow . The new proposed model amounts to daylight robbery if you take into account the 'guiding principle' of revenue generated by Members . ICC should not take advantage of the Indian supreme court causing turmoil in the BCCI. It is not fair. If india stop playing cricket , the game will be history Now we wait for next dosage of even bitter medicine from BCCI. Things will be very very interesting once this ad-hoc BCCI committee is replaced by the real one. I hope BCCI will concentrate more on its domestic market and not on useless tours to WI, SL and Zim. Let ICC take care off other boards. BCCI should expend IPL to two tiers with 16 teams and top tier team's panting in India's festive season (oct-jan). @cheesevantonder dude.. you really whinge and whine don't you?? Bcci accepted drs recently and still you are whining BCCI don't give a damn about new leagues etc. But no one can't take India's share of revenue. You can eat if you earn. India alone hasn't taken the responsibility of charity. Whatever you may say but if India pulls out of ICC events as a protest then that ICC revenue pool will not exist to share!! @CHEESEVANTONDER What happened to hot spot technology ?I don't see most of the time it is picking up edges and imagine there is edge and umpire has given out and team goes for review based on hot spot and if hot spot doesn't pick genuine edge then will overturn the decision or stay with it ?.i dont see any improvement in that technology . Agreed Manohar and Giles knew that this is the best time to bring BCCI down and they did it .But remember if BCCI survive this then they might give this medicine dosage to others.Wounded tigers are always dangerous.Waiting for srini to come back.As author said it was matter of time and hope it should over soon. This was a beautifully written article. I usually don't read such articles on CI, only come here for the scores, but I read this and thoroughly enjoyed it! Well done!
---------
Also, I had just watched the last segment of New Rules on Bill Maher last episode, an HBO show. It's very brash and abrasive segment where Bill takes things apart. The tone of this article resonated with that show perfectly! Good timing on my part. I'd suggest you watch it and then see what I'm talking about. Just like with DRS, I dont understand how this Cricket Board works. Is it hellbent on going against popular universal decision and forward thinking? Every single Cricket playing national accepted DRS, even with its flaws because they knew through usage you can improve the technology as with every other technological advancement in life - except the BCCI. No featured comments at the moment. Just like with DRS, I dont understand how this Cricket Board works. Is it hellbent on going against popular universal decision and forward thinking? Every single Cricket playing national accepted DRS, even with its flaws because they knew through usage you can improve the technology as with every other technological advancement in life - except the BCCI. This was a beautifully written article. I usually don't read such articles on CI, only come here for the scores, but I read this and thoroughly enjoyed it! Well done!
---------
Also, I had just watched the last segment of New Rules on Bill Maher last episode, an HBO show. It's very brash and abrasive segment where Bill takes things apart. The tone of this article resonated with that show perfectly! Good timing on my part. I'd suggest you watch it and then see what I'm talking about. Agreed Manohar and Giles knew that this is the best time to bring BCCI down and they did it .But remember if BCCI survive this then they might give this medicine dosage to others.Wounded tigers are always dangerous.Waiting for srini to come back.As author said it was matter of time and hope it should over soon. @CHEESEVANTONDER What happened to hot spot technology ?I don't see most of the time it is picking up edges and imagine there is edge and umpire has given out and team goes for review based on hot spot and if hot spot doesn't pick genuine edge then will overturn the decision or stay with it ?.i dont see any improvement in that technology . BCCI don't give a damn about new leagues etc. But no one can't take India's share of revenue. You can eat if you earn. India alone hasn't taken the responsibility of charity. Whatever you may say but if India pulls out of ICC events as a protest then that ICC revenue pool will not exist to share!! @cheesevantonder dude.. you really whinge and whine don't you?? Bcci accepted drs recently and still you are whining Now we wait for next dosage of even bitter medicine from BCCI. Things will be very very interesting once this ad-hoc BCCI committee is replaced by the real one. I hope BCCI will concentrate more on its domestic market and not on useless tours to WI, SL and Zim. Let ICC take care off other boards. BCCI should expend IPL to two tiers with 16 teams and top tier team's panting in India's festive season (oct-jan). If india stop playing cricket , the game will be history In 2014, the ICC purse was divided based on the contribution from each member countries. India contributes about 85% of ICC revenue and the other 114 countries contribute about 15% or roughly close to this ratio. In fact BCCI was not getting 85% in the 2014 model, because of principles of good conscience common sense and simplicity , enabling every Member to grow . The new proposed model amounts to daylight robbery if you take into account the 'guiding principle' of revenue generated by Members . ICC should not take advantage of the Indian supreme court causing turmoil in the BCCI. It is not fair. If the only thing which is stopping the plan to scrap big three is revenue then icc should revisit these figures. Bcci is a bit justified in asking for more shares. Big three wasnt about money alone. It was to keep control to three boards. So fir betterment of icc and cricket if its just the revenue share which is coming in way for this new proposal then icc should consider giving more share to bcci.