Steve O'Keefe dropped out of the Big Bash League mid-season to train in Dubai for Australia's upcoming tour of India AFP Stop the boundaries, build pressure and attack the stumps. Steve O'Keefe outlined these fundamentals for Australia's spin bowlers as they train in Dubai to prepare for the gargantuan task of matching wits with India's batsmen on home turf in a four-Test series starting later this month. O'Keefe dropped out of the Sydney Sixers' run to the Big Bash League final in order to prepare specifically for India, and his thoughts on how to bowl to the likes of Virat Kohli, Cheteshwar Pujara and Karun Nair are now clear. O'Keefe and his offspin partner Nathan Lyon have been aided by advice from Rangana Herath , Monty Panesar and Daniel Vettori . Panesar's advice was pointed, arguing that stopping India's batsmen from scoring boundaries was critical, while at the same time using variations in pace depending on the subtleties of the pitches prepared for the series. "Monty has had a lot of success in India and it was great to work with him," O'Keefe said. "The keys he talked about was being adaptable. "You're going to get different wickets, albeit they will be generally slow and spinning, but at times they can play a bit differently, might be a little bit quicker, one might bounce a bit more. He talked about being able to adapt really quickly and on the spot and also being able to take away the batter's scoring options in regards to boundaries... building pressure through being a little bit defensive, which was something that was, I guess, refreshing to hear." Similarly, Herath and Vettori spoke about keeping pressure on by attacking the stumps and not being overawed by the occasion, nor the identities of the batsmen at the other end. "I've spoken to Gaz [Lyon] who has played here before and he has spoken to Daniel Vettori," O'Keefe said. "I was able to briefly chat with Rangana Herath in Sri Lanka. "The main things you get from those guys is challenging the batter's defence, and if you can continually put the ball in the right area, given these conditions will spin more than what we're used to at home, that will help us. It's about building pressure and not being overawed. They're a class team, they're exceptional batters at home and it's going to be a big job. "But I have no doubt if we get it right for a sustained longer periods we can do some damage." During Australia's tour of India in 2013, Lyon finished with 15 wickets in three Tests, including a career-best 7 for 94 in the first innings in Delhi BCCI To that end, O'Keefe and his fellow left-arm spinner Ashton Agar are two players to have benefited from the 2015 Australia A tour to India, where the visitors acquitted themselves well against a home side that featured Kohli, Nair, Pujara and KL Rahul. "The positive was we got to play against those guys in those conditions, use an SG ball and compete," O'Keefe said. "We did really well, we were able to win a game and draw a game. It was positive to know that we were able to bowl against these guys, we were able to have some success. "Both Ashton and I played over there and were both able to create chances and build pressure. I'll be drawing on that but I also know it's going to be quite hard. It's another step up and when these guys are playing for their country they go up another level as well, so we're going to have to match them, if not try and get on top of them if we're going to win." The major recent obstacle for O'Keefe has been a series of physical ailments, namely calf and hamstring issues, a key reason why he chose to forego the BBL's bright lights for a more direct preparation. "At the moment the body feels good," he said. "Been able to get through some long sessions here in Dubai. I think getting that volume in will certainly put me in good stead. "It wasn't an easy decision stepping away, and seeing the Sixers play in the final , it's something you miss out on. But for me it was about getting some volume under my belt, in that time I was able to get 100 overs in grade and second XI cricket and we also played with a Dukes ball which is a little bit similar to an SG, so I found it really beneficial." The young Queensland legspinner Mitchell Swepson completes Australia's spin quartet. Daniel Brettig is an assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo. @danbrettig @5Worldcup's in 5Continent's: From where did Sachin creep into this discussion is the series being played in Aus ? I don't understand this meaningless comment about when SRT managed to score a century. @csowmi7: Your statement is valid but what makes you think ACB didn't request for it ? We don't have evidence otherwise considering the calamity surrounding BCCI, it wasn't possible to request at a later point either. We don't know what would have been the response from Indian govt as well, as its the election season in 5 states, forces would be mobilized in those regions they wouldn't want extra burden at this time. ACB should have tried to at least practice in SL, which would be far more similar to Indian pitches it could have helped SLCB few more bucks into their kitty, as they're already under huge debts. You need to pick the right team to compete with this Indian Team at home .. Renshaw Warner Smith (C) Handscomb Marsh Wade (WK) Maxwell O'Keefe Lyon Starc Hazlewood .. This should be the team . No place for khawaza , I repeat No place , after the way he batted in SL .. I actually don't have any concerns at all with SOK's bowling, perhaps his fitness but if he stays fit he'll do just fine. The greater worry has to around Lyon and Starc, both so inconsistent. Like SOK, Josh will probably be ok though not really that threatening, if he can keep the runs right down he'll be contributing. Hopefully a Renshaw, Smith or Handscomb is going to have a big series with the bat. Some good comments here amongst the silly bickering. @csowmi7 : Agree but it's in England that they put out insultingly low quality county sides against the tourists. Counties also provide low quality net bowlers often advertising on their website for local club players to apply!
We'll typically take the opportunity to test out 'A' players and there will be a mile long queue of net bowlers. People like Bedi will show up uninvited to assist with more than just net bowling :)
Just being in the country and getting used to air quality, travel, food/hotel etc is a benefit. If you arrive at the last possible minute, I can see issues. @THE-Cricketer: Yup, agree 100%, the pitches will certainly be drier. England had a huge advantage coming so early and playing at Mohali where the air temperature was pleasant. @ perl57 - some points taken, but one sided analysis one has to say. Agreed IND had their limitations in 2004 and 2012 but this team in the last 5 years has buried those results far behind. And on the other hand AUS in recent years have one of the poorest records in IND and Asia among all teams worldwide! So with all respect, to expect them to emulate 2004 results is a bit outlandish. They will do well to even compete and ensure it is not a washout like their last tours to IND and SL! I find it strange that Australia are spending so much time in Dubai practicing on pitches that are designed to replicate to a certain extent the conditions in India. Wouldn't it be far more beneficial for Australia to spend that time in India actually acclimatizing to the conditions and play a few extra tour games? To be honest some of our domestic sides are actually reasonably good and practice matches against a few A teams or a good Ranji team like Mumbai, Gujurat, Karnataka or Tamil Nadu would be far more beneficial. I hear of people complaining that the practice matches are against teams that are very weak. How difficult is to request specifically for tour matches against the top domestic sides or against the best domestic players by the touring board? Well, learning how to and then bowling per plan is very different. To win in India, more than Australia, INDIA has to work hard. Like in 2004 when a hopeless Indian team was struggling to put bat on ball. Still, yet, they lost 2-1 and bear in mind, 190 to get with 10 Indian wickets in hand, it rained out in madras. In 2012 when India lost to England, now that, was a very good tour. India were still bad but Monty, Greame, Cook and that great man KP turned it on. To do what Eng has done means, India has to work hard to be complacent. Looking at the moment, this team I believe will not be complacent. But, but, unlike Ponting's and Clarke's team, this one may not be a pushover after all. Some of them, will come out as warriors for Oz. People can be optimistic, but not delusional. Even Steve Waugh would laugh if someone goes to him and says that current aus team will win this series. @5WORLDCUP'S IN 5CONTINENT'S - Can't expect fans like you and Marcio to speak the truth. Lee did play in the match when Sachin scored his first ODI century and hit him with a beamer when he was on 99. I guess he couldn't get him out so decided to hurt him. Just like last time, India will whitewash them 4-0. @5Worldcup's in 5Continent's: From where did Sachin creep into this discussion is the series being played in Aus ? I don't understand this meaningless comment about when SRT managed to score a century. @csowmi7: Your statement is valid but what makes you think ACB didn't request for it ? We don't have evidence otherwise considering the calamity surrounding BCCI, it wasn't possible to request at a later point either. We don't know what would have been the response from Indian govt as well, as its the election season in 5 states, forces would be mobilized in those regions they wouldn't want extra burden at this time. ACB should have tried to at least practice in SL, which would be far more similar to Indian pitches it could have helped SLCB few more bucks into their kitty, as they're already under huge debts. You need to pick the right team to compete with this Indian Team at home .. Renshaw Warner Smith (C) Handscomb Marsh Wade (WK) Maxwell O'Keefe Lyon Starc Hazlewood .. This should be the team . No place for khawaza , I repeat No place , after the way he batted in SL .. I actually don't have any concerns at all with SOK's bowling, perhaps his fitness but if he stays fit he'll do just fine. The greater worry has to around Lyon and Starc, both so inconsistent. Like SOK, Josh will probably be ok though not really that threatening, if he can keep the runs right down he'll be contributing. Hopefully a Renshaw, Smith or Handscomb is going to have a big series with the bat. Some good comments here amongst the silly bickering. @csowmi7 : Agree but it's in England that they put out insultingly low quality county sides against the tourists. Counties also provide low quality net bowlers often advertising on their website for local club players to apply!
We'll typically take the opportunity to test out 'A' players and there will be a mile long queue of net bowlers. People like Bedi will show up uninvited to assist with more than just net bowling :)
Just being in the country and getting used to air quality, travel, food/hotel etc is a benefit. If you arrive at the last possible minute, I can see issues. @THE-Cricketer: Yup, agree 100%, the pitches will certainly be drier. England had a huge advantage coming so early and playing at Mohali where the air temperature was pleasant. @ perl57 - some points taken, but one sided analysis one has to say. Agreed IND had their limitations in 2004 and 2012 but this team in the last 5 years has buried those results far behind. And on the other hand AUS in recent years have one of the poorest records in IND and Asia among all teams worldwide! So with all respect, to expect them to emulate 2004 results is a bit outlandish. They will do well to even compete and ensure it is not a washout like their last tours to IND and SL! I find it strange that Australia are spending so much time in Dubai practicing on pitches that are designed to replicate to a certain extent the conditions in India. Wouldn't it be far more beneficial for Australia to spend that time in India actually acclimatizing to the conditions and play a few extra tour games? To be honest some of our domestic sides are actually reasonably good and practice matches against a few A teams or a good Ranji team like Mumbai, Gujurat, Karnataka or Tamil Nadu would be far more beneficial. I hear of people complaining that the practice matches are against teams that are very weak. How difficult is to request specifically for tour matches against the top domestic sides or against the best domestic players by the touring board? Well, learning how to and then bowling per plan is very different. To win in India, more than Australia, INDIA has to work hard. Like in 2004 when a hopeless Indian team was struggling to put bat on ball. Still, yet, they lost 2-1 and bear in mind, 190 to get with 10 Indian wickets in hand, it rained out in madras. In 2012 when India lost to England, now that, was a very good tour. India were still bad but Monty, Greame, Cook and that great man KP turned it on. To do what Eng has done means, India has to work hard to be complacent. Looking at the moment, this team I believe will not be complacent. But, but, unlike Ponting's and Clarke's team, this one may not be a pushover after all. Some of them, will come out as warriors for Oz. People can be optimistic, but not delusional. Even Steve Waugh would laugh if someone goes to him and says that current aus team will win this series. @5WORLDCUP'S IN 5CONTINENT'S - Can't expect fans like you and Marcio to speak the truth. Lee did play in the match when Sachin scored his first ODI century and hit him with a beamer when he was on 99. I guess he couldn't get him out so decided to hurt him. Just like last time, India will whitewash them 4-0. We've got awesome pace arsenal. Young guns with established greats and I back our spinners to out bowl theirs!! Aus to win 2-1. @5WORLDCUP'S IN 5CONTINENT'S: What makes you think that the Indian Team is complacent? Just because some over enthusiastic fans post some messages doesn't mean that the team is complacent. If they take Bangladesh seriously (Pujara's press conference), then it goes without saying that they'd take Australia very seriously. You are talking as if the entire team India is saying that they would win easily. No team is going to take any team lightly. It's fans like you that have a wrong impression and slam the teams. Instead of making predictions, lets enjoy the series and let the better team win. I doubt Aus will get the kind of pitch prepared for Eng...Aus will be starting the tour by end of Feb when it would start getting hot... so the pitch will dry up and will not have moisture in it....They will have to work harder and find right balance in their bowling dept to compete....cheers!! @evda cheta, so essentially you are saying to take 7 quick wickets? :) @Marcio Stats clearly indicate that there is a far greater balance between spinners and fast bowlers in the subcontinent than in places like South Africa and Australia. Care to provide statistics that indicate otherwise? @Marcio I believe you are referring to the 2004 series. Gilchrist was the captain throughout the series and Ponting only captained in 1 test in that series. Incidentally the 1 test he did captain and play in Australia lost. I dont believe he has captained a single test victory in India. Despite being a great batsman, Ponting had a pretty bad record in India averaging 26 in 14 test matches. Other Australian batsman like Steve Waugh,Hayden and Michael Clarke were far better than him in India. If you bother to actually take a look at the last 30 test matches in India you will see that the teams winning the toss have only won around 50% of the matches. What the fuss is all about? Loads of wild prediction haha. Cmon fella's this looks funny. Wait till the series gets over. At least he (O'Keefe) hasn't fallen for the trap where everyone thinks all tracks in India turn square from the 1st day. That's what DJT would call Fake News. It always depends on the curator, he can make Eden Gardens a spinning paradise or a seaming track as he did recently against NZ. And even on a spin friendly track the spin bowler needs to apply skill. It's important not to put too many revs on the ball and the beat the bat by several inches. You need just enough turn to beat the bat and take the edge or beat the bat completely but still be hitting the stumps. Don't we have a brand new venue in this Test series? Dharamsala? We don't know how that track will play. Also, I'm assuming that we have DRS for this series. Remember, the DRS used against Eng was supposedly a trial :) Yep that Sachin got his 1st ODI ton down under on his 35th birthday? That too in the absence of Mcgrath, Warne, Lee, etc. Gotta give credit , onya mate. Much is made of Ponting's poor batting in India, yes he started poorly in his first couple of tours but in his last 2 tours he averaged roughly 45 and was run out a bunch of times.
@Dunger..Hopefully he is another McGrath! If I was picking an attack for India I'd have Maxwell @6 ,Stoinis/M.Marsh@7,Hartley@8, OKeefe@9, Starc@10 and Hazelwood@11. @ ELECTRIC_LOCO_WAP4'S_SECOND_FATHER: Similarly, a fish can never hang around on a hook indefinitely because it will definitely die. I think there's a lesson in that for all of us. I'm just not sure what the message actually is. PARIAJ that is a sight we never get tired of seeing lol CSOWMI7, Ponting won a test series in India. I think he is qualified to make that observation, which is obvious at any rate. What is the point denying the way pitches are exaggerated for test cricket in the SC nowadays? And those suggesting that batting first is not a huge advantage in the SC are in Lala land. It doesn't guarantee a win, but it a massive advantage. Everyone knows this, so why argue? It's pointless. There's is no such massive adavantage in winning the toss in Australia, as someone suggested, unless the wicket is extremely skewed, such as it is SOMETIMES in Sydney (dry, bat first) and Hobart green, bowl first). Too much theory can spoil the goods, I feel Aussies are having too much theory, I will not be surprised if they fail altogether, this has been proved in the past.
@Alfers: I agree Swann Panesar did perform well but we have also to agree to the fact, the team was just ageing new players were still finding their feet, If the same set of players faced the earlier bunch of Indian players prior to 2011, the result may have been different. TBH, I didn't find Panesar that pretty, he didn't get the revolutions on the ball, all he did was altering the pace he pushed it a tad quicker, over 80kmps quite often - where as the Indian spinners - Ashwin Ojha were dramatically slower in pace for the wicket to help them - around 70-80's, it gave ample time for batters to adjust to the lengths. I'm sure Ashwin would've learned his lessor post the tour its the same reason Jadeja is quite handy because he fires the ball in taking a lot out of the surface. all those hypes about O'Keefee.nothing better than watching mighty aussies getting banged up. key to success in india is take top order wickets early as one of the opener is not in great form dhawan or rahul. than key is pujara and kholi if one of them australia got early than they have huge advantage as rahane or rohit can be at 5-6 and they are also not in good form.wicket-keeper is also not in dhoni-gilchrist class. problem is ashwin and jadeja australia have to take these 2 wickets early otherwise momentum will shift to india beacause in last 2 series at home these 2 have taken the game away from opposition after the game was in balance by their batting.rest umesh, shami Co. can not face more than 4-5 overs of starc. batting wise warner has opporturnity and experience to go big. renshaw could be australia' s hope if he plays his patient and long game. smith, s. marsh and handscomb are crucial. then rest wicketkeeper and tail have to fight hard not to give wickets as shown by starc and siddle in last tour. it can be close fight series and australia have to win key moments @ WORST#1SIDEEVERINDIA: I think Hazelwood will be cannon fodder in India ( tall and not fast enough) . You aren't the first one to say that and maybe you're right. Then again, McGrath was tall and not that fast and he did ok. There was an article just the other day showing the amazing similarities in McGrath/H'woods careers at the same number of games as Josh has currently played. No word of a lie, it's eerie how similar they are. I know it's no great reason to predict success for Haze in India, but it's no great predictor of doom either. I think I might wait until he bowls some overs before writing him off. a fish can become a dry fish but a dry fish can never become a fish and swim in water. Shami is quite dangerous cause he is not tall and skids on with some reverse swing, cannon fodder though in venues like SA and OZ, I think Hazelwood will be cannon fodder in India ( tall and not fast enough), OZ would be better off with a bowler who can reverse it and skid on off the deck..maybe Stoinis/ M.Marsh. Gillespie did well with reverse swing and skidding. All I can say is good luck to both the Aussies and the Indians and may the best playing country wins. India beat both NZ and ENG in home SC conditions. Australia by now should have got the taste and hang of how SC spin pitches work after touring SL and UAE. Comparing Herath and Ashwin, Ashwin can turn the ball more than Herath currently. AUS failed while facing Herath and dilruwan Perera and now need to work more attacking spinners where Ashwin and Jadeja will dominate in the IND bowling department. O Keef bowled well in SL during 1st odi. At least on the face of it, O'Keefe has been saying the right things. He seems to have the right idea. Of course, that's not even half the job done. Lyon though is the bowler who needs to step up. For someone who does so well on less helpful tracks, he needs to figure our a way to pick Indian wickets. It'll also be interesting to see the battle between pacers. While Starc and Hazelwood against Shami (hope he's fit) and Yadav seems a mismatch in every sense, they did better than Jimmy and Co against Eng. @SANJAYSANAPOORI - Dhoni may have said that Anderson was the difference between the two teams but it was Swann and Panesar who won that series. Dhoni just couldn't bring himself to admit that his spinners had been outbowled. @Marcio - And before anyone whinges that winning the toss is not an advantage, when the last time any team bowled first in the SC or UAE? Stretching my mind back over about 30 games, I can't remember even one. New methodology to discredit wins in Asia? Instances of a team winning the toss and bowling first in Asia? I assume you mean Test cricket. So here they are - SL vs Ind, Colombo, 2015. Ind vs SA, B'lore, 2015. They're definitely not 30 games ago. So how many times did a team bowl first after winning the toss in Aus in this time span? SA in Hobart, 2016, an off-grid Aus venue and WI at MCG, 2015. Same right? It's a well established fact that the ratio of wickets taken by spinners to pacers is much closer to unity in Ind (really!) than Aus/Eng. Read Michael Jeh's related article (http://www.espncricinfo.com/blogs/content/story/1067731.html). In SL, a good fast bowler like Starc was able to find a way. Broad did so in Ind. Asia just happens to demand a different skill set. @Marcio It really is funny that guys like Ponting and Mitchell Johnson speak about how the pitches have changed in India considering the fact that both of them have pretty poor records here whereas guys like Hayden and Mcgrath are involved in Indian cricket at the moment and were immensely successful in Indian conditions during their playing days. @Marcio It is an advantage everywhere in the world to bat first and put runs on the world unless it is a green seamer. That does not mean the advantage is so large that you cannot win a game without winning the toss. India recently won 3 tests against England batting second and drew another. We beat Australia as well 4-0 when they toured last despite Australia winning all 4 tosses. England won two tests on their tour in 2102 batting second. The key is to make first innings runs which are crucial. I reckon the problem that NZ and England made and what Australian sides have done in the past is that their spinners were trying to be like the Indian spinners too much. They should just do what they are used to and maybe change their line and lengths slightly. None of this don't give it as much flight and bowl it quicker nonsense. And Aussie's quicks should be good enough to snag a few wickets each. The batsmen will be in trouble as they only rely on Warner to score runs at the top and that is on flat wickets. The Indian tracks should start off flat before starting to rag, or they might just be like the pitches in the NZ series and South African series. So the toss is crucial. Te only Aussie batsman that I can see doing well is Steve Smith and maybe Handscombe, although those two will probably struggle @ Fictionaliser: I gained an immense amount of respect for Kohli when I learned about his role in getting the BCCI in accepting DRS. I remember thinking at the time 'now here's a bloke who isn't afraid to put his neck on the line'. I also heard that he wants Indian pitches to be better for the fast bowlers because he doesn't want to be seen to be hiding behind home conditions. I'm pretty sure I read that somewhere. If it's it true it's another indication that man is packing a mega set of balls. .. I don't care where you're from, that takes guts, and I respect that. @MARCIO: Last series Australians won 4 toss still lost the series 4-0..... Still toss is important in every match played on planet earth not only in SC..... So plz stop this toss thoughts..... Where as Pointing said about pitches spinning from 3rd day during his days, still he had pathetic technique against Bhaji and Kumble....... Smith will go through the Acid test of Final frontier...... Warner will be full failure with 1-2 decent innings ....... Shaun Marsh will be the best Batsman in this lineup.... Khwaja may finish his carrier if plays all the test..... Starc and Hazzelwood will be important bowlers Ravindra Jadeja will be Hero of the Series with Ball and Bat both..... He is most Dangerous bowler on Indian wickets with Ashwin and Shami as a big supporter at other end..... Umesh Yadav and Shami will be better than Starc and Hazzelwood on Indian wickets...... Aussies will be losing the series bcoz of There Batsman...... Make a note @ Aussie_Ado: I've noticed that Lyon seems to struggle on pitches that actually spin a bit. The more it spins, the more he gets confused about his lines. Give him a pitch that isn't doing much and he can be a difficult customer though. Maybe a result of learning his trade on the harder decks in Oz? Someone commented here that Indians are over confident. Partly true. Indian fanatic fans are overconfident cocky here... true. But are the likes of Kohli co so bombastic? Absolutely NOT. We Indians know that Australia can give India a good thrashing with the likes of Warner, Smith, Starc, Hazelwood in their ranks. Kohli co will treat this contest on merit rather than getting influenced by all this gloomy stuff Indian fans are writing over here. One doesn't average 60+ for 4 years like Smith without being world class. He is a genius! Kohli knows this as well. My personal opinion is that English were a more difficult competitors with the likes of Stokes Ali. But well ... Australia has the potential to trip us over. We hope that our team does not allow them to settle ... AUSSIE_ADO, Lyon cleaned up nine wickets in his most recent test in India, including a 7-for. Maybe he has some understanding of his own. The Australian batsmen were also showing a greatly improved tactical and technical understanding of playing spin on dry, spinning SC tracks with their 6-1 win in the short formats in SL. They may do better than many expect. They can put down a well-balanced team here, and if they win a few tosses and bat first (always a big advantage in the SC) they might just win some of the tests. And before anyone whinges that winning the toss is not an advantage, when the last time any team bowled first in the SC or UAE? Stretching my mind back over about 30 games, I can't remember even one. And as Ponting recently observed, the pitches in the SC have changed considerably even since his day. In his day, only a decade ago, they spun on day 3. Now most spin on day 1. They have no interest in promoting competition in the game, just in securing short-term wins. This is going to be a tough series for Aus. No chance on Aus winning, but hopefully O'Keefe can learn from the experience and take that forward with his career. I agree with some of the other comments that Lyon will struggle because he relies on bounce and doesn't really bowl wicket to wicket. From my observations over the years, bowling round arm and wicket to wicket is a strength in India.
Here's hoping for an entertaining series! to add on I would say that the way the oz fast bowlers bowl and how smith uses them would make the difference correct me if I am wrong. but nowadays teams touring the subcontinent tend to stack up spin bowlers thinking it would make a difference. This doesn't work against india as they are decent players of spin which negates the use of many spin bowlers.rather than having Australia keep a lot of spinners I think the difference would be with the way there pace bowlers starc and hazlewood bowl. even in the 2012 india England series in india after the series dhoni said Anderson was the difference between the 2 teams. if one of the oz pacers can bowl like him then they will be competitive in the tournament.
last time around as well lyon was overhyped with people saying he could replicate what swann and panesar did, but he ended up getting hammered in the Chennai test by kohli and dhoni @ CRICKETSUBH: I agree that they'll give O'Keefe and Lyon (O'Lyon?) first bite at the cherry. It remains to be seen how effective either of them will be but, in true Aussie spirit, I'm quietly confident they'll be much better than most of the critics think. With Swepson, I think he's there as cover for all the bowlers, fast and slow. If it urns out that the fast bowlers really struggle to make an impression they might think about going in with 3 spinners. Similarly, if either Lyon or Sok get it completely wrong he could come in for either of them. There is lot of difference between pitches in India Australia let O'Keefe can seek advise from any bowler but finally O'Keefe has bowl in that pitch Indian batsman are well organised prepared to face his bowling definitely he is no treat at all . If and if O'Keefe would have been an Indian player I am afraid he might not been even selected to play Ranaji Trophy that is his standard quality . O'Keefe is not all treat to Indian batsman and same will be re confirmed very son In subcontinent conditions spin bowler should bowl wicket to wicket bowlers like jadeja Ashwin takes lots of wickets because they bowl wicket to wicket O' Keefe style of bowling suitable to Indian conditions I don't think Lyon style of bowling suited to subcontinent conditions I think Australia will pick Lyon and O' Keefe if Lyon struggles to take wickets in the first test Australia should try swepson what good will be vettori or herath 's advice be when they themselves were parts of teams that suffered heavy defeats to indians.sok or lyon or whatever spin wizard' from aus will be taken to cleaners in the first test itself and that will set the tone for another whitewash of touring side to the best test side india. england had better spinners and still lost 4-0. Hmmm....Good spin prep with better pace bowlers than us. If warner and one other batsman fire I have a feeling we might be looking at a tough series ahead. I think Lyon and o'keefe will bowl well in tandem. I hope our chaps are preparing for this series and not shopping and buying shares with their obscene IPL earnings. Indians are in for a surprise! They look over confident it may backfire 'em. Watch out for Starcy, Josh SOK trio. Not gonna be a cake walk either. Australia to retain the BG trophy 2-1. Good luck Aussies should field following XI : Renshaw, Warner, Shaun Marsh, Smith, Handscomb, Maxwell / Swepson, Wade, Starc, O'Keffe, Lyon, Hazelwood..... Good luck to Aussies Spinners.... IMO there would not be any drastic change in Overseas bowlers approach......... there Confidence get shuttered in 1 Inning...... That's enough for the rest of the Series......... And Aussies will thinking of how to tackle Ashwin and Jadeja, Surprise package will be Shami, Note down it..... India Should Bat with this team in 1st Test: KL Rahul, Vijay, Pujara, Virat, Karun, Rahane / Jayant, Shaha, Ashwin , Jadeja, Shami, Umesh...... India Should play Starc and Hazzelwood sensibly without giving wicket to them and Rest Aussies Bowling lineup will be Down in confidence in no time............. 4-0 on cards.......... Another Whitewash for Aussies @cricfan96140610. Australia have identified a shortcoming and have sought advice. That shows cricket smarts, far from the arrogance most seem to think is a trait of our side when it tours. We've obviously put effort in collectively, and it seems individually, to be up for this challenge. We won't have any excuses if we prepare well and I'll continue to believe that this series is not going to be the walkover for India that many think. Aussie sides will fight it right out. In most cases we will go for the win but Smudge has indicated a change in approach is likely where a draw may be as good as a win in the odd case. As far as we are aware India haven't asked for assistance when touring out here. Maybe they arrogantly believe that their star batsmen would flourish in conditions that most seem to think are flat batting roads? The odd big individual score won't lead to success out here as the evidence indicates by no SC series wins on Australian soil. That doesn't look like changing soon @ KeepCalm: It's not a bald spot. It's a cunningly concealed solar panel for a wicket taking machine ;) CRICFAN96140610 - bro the only person who was past his prime in that series was sachin... sehwag was dropped early on, and rest were fairly new... credit where its due - monty was sensational in that series... so was swann... i hate to bite that bitter pill but they out bowled our spinners by a long way... @ CRICFAN96140610: Or maybe it's just the Aussies aren't too proud to ask for advice. Not sure I've heard about the Indians putting any feelers out. Maybe that says something about you too. the thing is this...india pitch has little bit bounce morethan sl pitches ..so starc has a chance..wasim akram said once.. if fast bowler has height ,swin,pace ..he can be threat for opposition ....m opinion is pattinson,cummins should be in for hazelwood and bird..bcoz india,u need pace..bcoz of no lot of bounce there...in batting lineup...only smith ,warner,handscomb and s.marsh are the batsman who is really best for spin...sometimes wade is ok..starc can bat few overs ....australia hve best bowling side whn compare with india..if starc can attack their top order 3..definitely australia can attack indian middle order...bcoz india hve to attack by using their spinners only..bcoz australia really well for seamers...if australia attack their spin pair well..australia hve chance to create the history like 2004 For all the talks about spinners succeeding in the SC, I won't be surprised to see Hazelwood and Starc toppling the Indian batsmen with their skills with the old ball and the new! Lots of posters have said that Lyon is ineffective in India. Can't see it myself. 3 matches, 15 wickets with a best of 7/94 doesn't indicate a hopeless cause in my view. Admittedly the average is a bit high (37 or so) but that is more than offset by the wickets. .. I've seen similar claims about O'Keefe. Poor in Asia they say. He's played 0.5 tests in Asia. He was bowling nicely, already had 3 first innings wickets, then his calf muscle blew up and he went home. That's it. That's his 'ordinary' Asian record. .. I hope both of these guys bowl out of their skins just to shut some of the statistical ninja's up for 5 minutes. just one series in which indian batting greats where well past their prime and were struggling to save their place in team and people started treating panesar as a highly successfull bowler in india..actually he was lucky to play that series and his wickets came only bcoz of pressure created by one of all time greats swann.. never saw people from other countries advising indian bowlers when india travels...what this is to say? hate for india or love for aussies..looks like these guys are seriously jealous on virat kohli's men success its funny to hear overseas players keep referring to indian batters as exceptional players at home as if they are home track bully. in reality indian batsman have the best overseas record along with south africans in any formats of the game. kohli has 17 overseas hundred in odis in comparison to 9 by whole of the australian team. rahane, kohli vijay have scored hundred all around the world in tests.australian team is the biggest home track bully at present. noneof there batsman have decent record traveling in any format apart from smith in tests. advices more advices..easier said than done..bring in barnes, grimmett, warne, Mcgill..australian spinners still will get wallopped On an unrelated note, can Lyon grow his hair back? Looks so much better and younger when he's not a baldie. Now on the topic, O-Keefe will probably be a better spinner in the SC and Lyon seems to only know flight and drift but applies too much bounce for SC wickets so he never gets bowled or LBW which is what Ashwin and Jadeja rely upon. Simple advice is attack the stumps, have fielders in close, change your pace and throw in the odd variation like an arm ball or even try bowlin a little doosra. Herath ? Cant hold my amusement... When did Herath or Vetori shine on Indian pitches ? As hard as their task will be, O' Keefe was bowling really beautifully in Sri Lanka before he got his injury. Don't know how effective he will be in India, but if he bowls anything like he did in Sri Lanka, the Aussies might have a chance. Aus will need Starc to fire like he did in SL and their batsman (especially Smith + Warner) to fire and play out Ashwin/Jadeja. No featured comments at the moment. As hard as their task will be, O' Keefe was bowling really beautifully in Sri Lanka before he got his injury. Don't know how effective he will be in India, but if he bowls anything like he did in Sri Lanka, the Aussies might have a chance. Aus will need Starc to fire like he did in SL and their batsman (especially Smith + Warner) to fire and play out Ashwin/Jadeja. Herath ? Cant hold my amusement... When did Herath or Vetori shine on Indian pitches ? On an unrelated note, can Lyon grow his hair back? Looks so much better and younger when he's not a baldie. Now on the topic, O-Keefe will probably be a better spinner in the SC and Lyon seems to only know flight and drift but applies too much bounce for SC wickets so he never gets bowled or LBW which is what Ashwin and Jadeja rely upon. Simple advice is attack the stumps, have fielders in close, change your pace and throw in the odd variation like an arm ball or even try bowlin a little doosra. advices more advices..easier said than done..bring in barnes, grimmett, warne, Mcgill..australian spinners still will get wallopped its funny to hear overseas players keep referring to indian batters as exceptional players at home as if they are home track bully. in reality indian batsman have the best overseas record along with south africans in any formats of the game. kohli has 17 overseas hundred in odis in comparison to 9 by whole of the australian team. rahane, kohli vijay have scored hundred all around the world in tests.australian team is the biggest home track bully at present. noneof there batsman have decent record traveling in any format apart from smith in tests. never saw people from other countries advising indian bowlers when india travels...what this is to say? hate for india or love for aussies..looks like these guys are seriously jealous on virat kohli's men success just one series in which indian batting greats where well past their prime and were struggling to save their place in team and people started treating panesar as a highly successfull bowler in india..actually he was lucky to play that series and his wickets came only bcoz of pressure created by one of all time greats swann.. Lots of posters have said that Lyon is ineffective in India. Can't see it myself. 3 matches, 15 wickets with a best of 7/94 doesn't indicate a hopeless cause in my view. Admittedly the average is a bit high (37 or so) but that is more than offset by the wickets. .. I've seen similar claims about O'Keefe. Poor in Asia they say. He's played 0.5 tests in Asia. He was bowling nicely, already had 3 first innings wickets, then his calf muscle blew up and he went home. That's it. That's his 'ordinary' Asian record. .. I hope both of these guys bowl out of their skins just to shut some of the statistical ninja's up for 5 minutes. For all the talks about spinners succeeding in the SC, I won't be surprised to see Hazelwood and Starc toppling the Indian batsmen with their skills with the old ball and the new! the thing is this...india pitch has little bit bounce morethan sl pitches ..so starc has a chance..wasim akram said once.. if fast bowler has height ,swin,pace ..he can be threat for opposition ....m opinion is pattinson,cummins should be in for hazelwood and bird..bcoz india,u need pace..bcoz of no lot of bounce there...in batting lineup...only smith ,warner,handscomb and s.marsh are the batsman who is really best for spin...sometimes wade is ok..starc can bat few overs ....australia hve best bowling side whn compare with india..if starc can attack their top order 3..definitely australia can attack indian middle order...bcoz india hve to attack by using their spinners only..bcoz australia really well for seamers...if australia attack their spin pair well..australia hve chance to create the history like 2004