Play 01:59 Need to work on establishing standard technologies across the board - Richardson A uniform Decision Review System (DRS) is likely to be used across all three formats from October 2017. The DRS will also be utilised for the first time in an ICC T20 tournament in 2018, with one review per team in the Women's World T20 in the West Indies. These proposals were discussed and approved by the ICC's Chief Executives' Committee at a two-day meeting in Dubai last week, where it was also proposed that the ICC contribute towards the costs of using DRS to reduce the financial burden on member boards in a bilateral series and enable consistent use of the system. A more detailed plan will be tabled for approval at the ICC's Cricket Committee meeting in May followed by a final ratification at the annual conference in June in London. The proposal also specifies that accredited technology service providers that form part of the DRS will need a stamp of approval from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) before use in matches. In the last year all the major technologies used in DRS - HawkEye, HotSpot, Ultra Edge, Real-time Snicko - have undergone performance testing by an apparatus developed by the engineers from the field intelligence unit at MIT in collaboration with the ICC. The apparatus specifically assessed the performance of technologies used in the DRS: ball-tracking and the two types of edge detection - based on noise and on heat. Virtual Eye is the only other technology provider yet to be tested, but will do so in March. The high cost of using DRS has been one of the challenges for countries adopting the system. Last July, David Richardson, the ICC's chief executive, said it was time the ICC "paid heed" to the suggestion of the CEC and the Cricket Committee, which had asked it to " take more control " over DRS. In bilateral cricket, the norm followed is that the home broadcaster usually pays for DRS and, in some rare cases, the home board contributes some amount or pays fully for the technology. However, going forward, the CEC suggested that the ICC pay a set amount of money per day of the match. Sharing the costs would help the ICC ensure the technologies used are consistent with the standards recommended by the MIT team, even as the home board will have the final word on the technology provider being used for a series. "The Chief Executives' Committee agreed to the principle of a consistent use of DRS technology across all international cricket," the ICC said in a release on Saturday. "A full implementation plan will be considered by the ICC Cricket Committee in May before approval in June 2017 for roll-out from October 2017." Another significant decision approved by the CEC was use of DRS in T20 internationals for the first time. The 2018 Women's World T20, to be played in the West Indies, will be the first ICC event in the shortest format to have DRS. There has been an outcry among some of the member boards, who have sought the use of DRS in bilateral T20 internationals. The ICC Chief Executives' Committee has suggested that the ICC also contribute towards the costs of using DRS to reduce the financial burden on member boards and ensure consistent use of technology Associated Press This is a big shot in the arm for Richardson and ICC considering they have been pushing for consistent DRS for a while. The one big challenge the ICC had faced was the opposition by BCCI, which had strong reservations against the ball-tracking technology in DRS. The Indian board said the technology was not perfect but changed its mind in October when it decided to use DRS on a trial basis in the five-Test series and ODIs against England at home. India captain Virat Kohli, also gave a thumbs-up to DRS , which is now likely to be used in the one-off Test against Bangladesh and the four-match Test series against Australia in March. The issue came to light as recently as last month during England's three-match T20I series in India. After being edged out in a last-over finish in the second T20I in Nagpur by India, England lodged a written complaint with the ICC match referee against an Indian on-field umpire for ruling Joe Root lbw despite an inside edge. England captain Eoin Morgan was dismayed at the unavailability of reviews in the T20Is. "The fact it's not [available] is a concern. There is as much on the line as there is in a Test or a one-day match so no reason why it shouldn't be used," Morgan said. At this week's CEC, member boards discussed whether use of DRS in bilateral T20s could form part of the series agreements. However, there was no substantial discussion on the use of the system in the format outside of the World T20. A final discussion will be held during the Cricket Committee meeting in May. It was also decided that DRS will be used in the Champions Trophy in June and in all televised matches of the Women's World Cup. Nagraj Gollapudi is a senior assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo @DOCROCKER: There is no need to take the batsman in the way of the ball hitting the stumps. The moment ball hit the batsman pad/thigh he will be at the wrong end to receive the consequences of a ball naturally travel through the distance and hit the stumps. When he hit it with the bat, there is no point of ball tracking since the batsman has done everything right, hence not out. If technology is so advanced and accurate then why to use Umpires? Please lay them off now and there will be substantial savings across the board. I agree with the comments saying the ball tracking is dodgy. What they are missing is the removal of on field decisions . Use the technology all the way. @docrocker. The deviation based on compression of the air between ball and bat will not be nearly as big as a centimetre before it passes the stumps because 1. the distance the bat to the stumps would be about 1.5 m at most in the majority of cases and 2. The force of the compressed air will be small to have much effect because of the inertia the ball is carrying. Otherwise when the batsman misses the ball the deviation due to air compression would be quite noticeable on replays. Most times you cannot pick up deviation when passing the bat unless it hits the edge. Deviations for very fine edges can be small as well. The deviation would be significant only if the distance to travel is very long. At last ICC is acting like an international sport body. I have a suggestion for ICC. If bowler overstep, technology should capture it immediately and alert the umpire. Currently umpire checks no-ball mostly when the batsman get dismissed, and in most cases bowlers gets away from the eyes of umpires when they oversteps. Lol Dave Richardson's first good piece of work! Alas! First time I think I've ever agreed with David Richardson on something. Why not give the umpire the chance to check with the third umpire if he is not sure of any decision. At the moment it is only for run-out and stumping. @DOCROCKER, So an umpire with naked eyes can calculate all that in a split second and give a decision? Mind you, he needs to extrapolate the couple of millimeters affected by the air cushion to the point of impact on the stumps. So... no mention of how instrumental the BCCI was in ensuring that this technology is standardised, is scientifically tested and uniformly applied? @DOCROCKER: There is no need to take the batsman in the way of the ball hitting the stumps. The moment ball hit the batsman pad/thigh he will be at the wrong end to receive the consequences of a ball naturally travel through the distance and hit the stumps. When he hit it with the bat, there is no point of ball tracking since the batsman has done everything right, hence not out. If technology is so advanced and accurate then why to use Umpires? Please lay them off now and there will be substantial savings across the board. I agree with the comments saying the ball tracking is dodgy. What they are missing is the removal of on field decisions . Use the technology all the way. @docrocker. The deviation based on compression of the air between ball and bat will not be nearly as big as a centimetre before it passes the stumps because 1. the distance the bat to the stumps would be about 1.5 m at most in the majority of cases and 2. The force of the compressed air will be small to have much effect because of the inertia the ball is carrying. Otherwise when the batsman misses the ball the deviation due to air compression would be quite noticeable on replays. Most times you cannot pick up deviation when passing the bat unless it hits the edge. Deviations for very fine edges can be small as well. The deviation would be significant only if the distance to travel is very long. At last ICC is acting like an international sport body. I have a suggestion for ICC. If bowler overstep, technology should capture it immediately and alert the umpire. Currently umpire checks no-ball mostly when the batsman get dismissed, and in most cases bowlers gets away from the eyes of umpires when they oversteps. Lol Dave Richardson's first good piece of work! Alas! First time I think I've ever agreed with David Richardson on something. Why not give the umpire the chance to check with the third umpire if he is not sure of any decision. At the moment it is only for run-out and stumping. @DOCROCKER, So an umpire with naked eyes can calculate all that in a split second and give a decision? Mind you, he needs to extrapolate the couple of millimeters affected by the air cushion to the point of impact on the stumps. So... no mention of how instrumental the BCCI was in ensuring that this technology is standardised, is scientifically tested and uniformly applied? @CRICFAN75335519..you support others SC teams when your interest there..some of you support BD against Eng because you needed a soften up Eng....but according to the new profit sharing resolution by ICC BD will get as much as Australia so why they support IND?? If the review is used up early and its unsuccessful and we get multiple howlers from umpire after that, then its practically useless. Even though India have been co-erced into using DRS, I would still say DRS is nowhere near being used consistently in internationals. Until they find a way where DRS can be used unlimited and yet not affect the duration, they need to keep it away and focus on improving umpiring instead. They should abolish decision making by umpires on field and instead all decisions should be monitored real time by a panel of umpires sitting inside and feedback should be constantly given to the on-field umpire. On field umpires should not make decisions based on their view on field. They should just be the announcers of the decision. Computer processing has gotten to the point where real time processing of visuals at breakneck speed is possible. Best news I read today. Uniform DRS is a must. There should no choice given to individual boards on its usage. But for BCCI's opposition propped up by insecure senior players, it would have become mandatory years ago. Well said Samroy...These Pak BD and some SL fans think that Eng and AUS will support them. They support them but not India when they play against India. But most Indian fans support a SC team when they play those teams. These fans don't realize that they will dump them as soon as they feel these teams are of no use to them The biggest problem with ball tracking is that it has not considered aerodynamics when computing the track the ball would have traveled. When there is no bat or batsman in the way, the ball will strike at a particular place on the wicket. That is undisputed. However, when a ball is moving towards a solid object like a bat or a batsman, the air cushion between the ball and the solid object (bat or batsman's pads) gets compressed. The ball thus get pushed away from the solid object by a couple of millimeters. This causes the ball tracking to calculate the point of strike further away from the wicket as compared to the point it would strike if no solid object was in the way. This couple of millimeters when extrapolated to the remaining distance from the point of interference with the solid object to the wickets will lead to a variance of a centimeter or two. That is often enough for a ball which would have missed the stumps to be shown as hitting the wickets on ball tracking. Good news indeed. A step forward. keep 4 reviews per match not per innings in odi. 10 reviews in test match (whole match). 2 reviews in t20 match. further umpires should not check for no balls after wicket. let the runner check for front foot error and if the bowler has overstepped and umpire has not noticed the batting can ask for review. use hawk eye and a modified version of sniko mobile app and detector. Should have been adopted a long time ago. anyway better late than never. @ROPSH ON FEBRUARY 6, 2017, 10:15 GMT
Until the MIT study is released publicly and subjected to peer review, its results are utterly meaningless. HawkEye's forecast path cannot be trusted - its accuracy has not been verified. Very well-said. Have to agree with you. Furthermore, why MIT? What do they know about cricket? It should have been one of the institutes either in India, Australia or England, or even South Africa. Until the MIT study is released publicly and subjected to peer review, its results are utterly meaningless. HawkEye's forecast path cannot be trusted - its accuracy has not been verified. Hope SL gonna host the icc wt20 in 2018 at Colombo Pallekele Dambulla and Hambanthota Keep it at 1 review, even if successful, or is that a given? You don't want 6 or 7 a match And please remove trend to check for no-ball after every wicket. If DRS restricted to 1 or 2 per match to save time, why this cult takes place ? What you mean the almighty BCCI is finally agreeing to it ?? are we having a world T20 in 2018 or not ?? was that discussed ? Even though ICC is moving away from the concept of Big Three yet ICC only takes a pro-active stance with a law change only when one of the Big Three have a problem with it. Basically it was only England and Australia before 1996 but once India established itself as the dominant force in terms of revenue (80% share) it became the most dominant player in ICC. But anyway, this move about having DRS in T20I games is always welcome as every game is important. Just saying that if SL or BD captain had raised the same issue as Morgan did such an action wouldn't have been taken so pro-actively by ICC. Good decision. Glad to see india growing up No featured comments at the moment. Good decision. Glad to see india growing up Even though ICC is moving away from the concept of Big Three yet ICC only takes a pro-active stance with a law change only when one of the Big Three have a problem with it. Basically it was only England and Australia before 1996 but once India established itself as the dominant force in terms of revenue (80% share) it became the most dominant player in ICC. But anyway, this move about having DRS in T20I games is always welcome as every game is important. Just saying that if SL or BD captain had raised the same issue as Morgan did such an action wouldn't have been taken so pro-actively by ICC. are we having a world T20 in 2018 or not ?? was that discussed ? What you mean the almighty BCCI is finally agreeing to it ?? And please remove trend to check for no-ball after every wicket. If DRS restricted to 1 or 2 per match to save time, why this cult takes place ? Keep it at 1 review, even if successful, or is that a given? You don't want 6 or 7 a match Hope SL gonna host the icc wt20 in 2018 at Colombo Pallekele Dambulla and Hambanthota Until the MIT study is released publicly and subjected to peer review, its results are utterly meaningless. HawkEye's forecast path cannot be trusted - its accuracy has not been verified. @ROPSH ON FEBRUARY 6, 2017, 10:15 GMT
Until the MIT study is released publicly and subjected to peer review, its results are utterly meaningless. HawkEye's forecast path cannot be trusted - its accuracy has not been verified. Very well-said. Have to agree with you. Furthermore, why MIT? What do they know about cricket? It should have been one of the institutes either in India, Australia or England, or even South Africa. Should have been adopted a long time ago. anyway better late than never.