ESPNcricinfo Ltd England allrounders Ben Stokes and Chris Woakes and their limited-overs captain Eoin Morgan are among the seven players who have listed themselves at the highest base price of INR 2 crore (approx US $298,000) for the IPL player auction scheduled in Bangalore on February 20. India seamer Ishant Sharma , Sri Lanka captain Angelo Mathews , and the Australian fast bowlers Mitchell Johnson and Pat Cummins are the rest of the players in this set. Also in the top bracket INR 1.5 crore : Jonny Bairstow, Trent Boult, Brad Haddin, Nathan Lyon, Kyle Abbott, Jason Holder Note: The currency conversion is at current dollar rates and the figures are approximate amounts) *INR 1 crore = INR 100 lakh = INR 10000000 = USD 149 thousand approx INR 1 lakh = INR 100 thousand = INR 100000 = USD 1490 approx A total of 799 players were part of the initial roster which would be pruned once the franchises submit their choices before the deadline this weekend. There were 160 capped players from eight countries - leaving out Bangladesh and Pakistan - and 639 from India, Australia, South Africa, New Zealand, Sri Lanka and West Indies. Of the 24 capped Indian cricketers, everyone barring Ishant has listed their base price at INR 30 lakh. Considering they will have to put a majority of their players back into the auction in 2018, some franchise officials said they would not be too aggressive in buying players this season. However, they did agree that there would be considerable interest in the English players. Although the IPL is yet to decide on the retention rules, franchises expect the right-to-match option to be available. This allows franchises to buy back a specific number of the players they have released for the auction, by matching the highest bid those players attract; if they match the bid they win the player. With the impressive all-round skills he showed during England's recent tour of India, Stokes tops the list of marquee players that several franchises have said they would like to have. Play 00:47 Quick Facts: IPL 2017 Auction After Andrew Strauss took over as the ECB director of cricket last year, he has allowed England players the freedom to play in domestic T20 leagues like the IPL to gain wider exposure. Morgan, who has played for three different teams, Jos Butler (Mumbai Indians), Sam Billings (Delhi Daredevils), Chris Jordan (Royal Challengers Bangalore) have all commented on the positive influence of playing the IPL. Many England players who attended media briefings during the six-match limited-overs series in India last month spoke about the attraction of the IPL. Wicketkeeper batsman Jonny Bairstow (INR 1.5 crore), hard-hitting opening batsmen Alex Hales and Jason Roy (INR 1 crore) and fast bowlers Jordan and Tymal Mills (INR 50 lakh) have put their names up for auction. Franchises retained a total of 140 players and released 89 ahead of this IPL auction. Among those released and now trying to make a return are Johnson (Kings XI Punjab, INR 6.5 crore), Mathews (Delhi Daredevils, INR 7.5 crore), Ishant (Rising Pune Supergiants, INR 3.8 crore) and Morgan (Sunrisers Hyderabad, INR 1.5 crore). ESPNcricinfo Ltd Former South Africa fast bowler Kyle Abbott , who recently moved to Hampshire as a Kolpak player, has listed his base price at INR 1.5 cr. Abott was bought by Kings XI in 2016 for INR 2.1 crore but was released in December. Another player attempting to make a return is New Zealand fast bowler Trent Boult , who was hired by Sunrisers in 2015 for INR 3.8 crore. Boult has now listed his base price at INR 1.5 crore. West Indies ODI captain Jason Holder has also kept his price at INR 1.5 crore. He was with Kolkata Knight Riders, who had bought him for INR 75 lakh in 2014, until last season. India left-arm spinner Pawan Negi , who was the second-most expensive player bought at last year's auction by the Daredevils for INR 8.5 crore comes into the auction with a base price of INR 30 lakh. Nagraj Gollapudi is a senior assistant editor at ESPNcricinfo @Mashozain: We wish so but even if Pakistan players send in their names I'm not sure if any franchise would be interested in picking them up, considering the political scenario between the 2 countries. BCCI earlier regime didn't allow Indian players to take part in overseas leagues, I will not be surprised if they stick to the same but at least BCCI should allow emerging players to take part or the ones who are past their prime no longer considered as a long term prospect for Indian teams. All we can do is only to hope. @Armani777: Rankings don't matter for the top picks, the opposition against whom they played will also be taken into consideration basically players set their base price. Its sure no one would pick Brad Haddin, still he places himself in 1.5 crore margin hoping to make money if at all he gets picked. I don't think any franchise is going to give a woot based on the BPL performances though. @cricfan40999706: Tambe is a liability in the field. Afghanistan shehzad gud wicketkeeper batsman....from csk fan RPS should rearrange their opening.Rahane is not an ideal t20 player. Unmukt chand or aditya tare will be a good addition.There are lot of new entrants like prithvi shaw,priyank panchal also to consider for that position.Make rahane bat when 2/3 wickets fall in quick succession.Another worry for RPS is the absence of a good death bowler and an indian spinner to complement ashwin.jordan,stokes or pawan negi can be a good choice to fill these spots. Almost all IPL teams are set with their players with only Pune Super Gaints looking out for Overseas Indian Players. They will pick Ben Stokes but desperately require two Indian batsmen but there aren't any good players available. They will fight for Aditya Tare whom Mumbai Indians also will fighting for. Mumbai Indian will also be picking Ishant Sharma. Majority of the overseas players will be picked from England. From Australia only Mitchell Johnson and Ben Dunk, from New Zealand, Trent Boult and Corey Anderson and from South Africa only Imran Tahir will make it. has zaheer retired from ipl too? CRICFAN40999706, RCB definitely need a good Indian pacer, but that pacer cannot be RP Singh. I still remember him getting Jadeja's wicket off a big, big no-ball in the last ball of the innings, which was literally stealing defeat from the jaws of victory for RCB. Big no-no. @LODD, IPL attraction is its Supporters, Music and the Party's. you must try you will forget the rest.. for sure !! I hope pak players get to play ipl and india players psl But one thing for sure, the top auctioned players never play well that season, it's proven with pawan negi, irfan Pathan, Morris, yuvraj, now ishant, I don't know what goes behind the scenes for these players price tag @Mashozain: We wish so but even if Pakistan players send in their names I'm not sure if any franchise would be interested in picking them up, considering the political scenario between the 2 countries. BCCI earlier regime didn't allow Indian players to take part in overseas leagues, I will not be surprised if they stick to the same but at least BCCI should allow emerging players to take part or the ones who are past their prime no longer considered as a long term prospect for Indian teams. All we can do is only to hope. @Armani777: Rankings don't matter for the top picks, the opposition against whom they played will also be taken into consideration basically players set their base price. Its sure no one would pick Brad Haddin, still he places himself in 1.5 crore margin hoping to make money if at all he gets picked. I don't think any franchise is going to give a woot based on the BPL performances though. @cricfan40999706: Tambe is a liability in the field. Afghanistan shehzad gud wicketkeeper batsman....from csk fan RPS should rearrange their opening.Rahane is not an ideal t20 player. Unmukt chand or aditya tare will be a good addition.There are lot of new entrants like prithvi shaw,priyank panchal also to consider for that position.Make rahane bat when 2/3 wickets fall in quick succession.Another worry for RPS is the absence of a good death bowler and an indian spinner to complement ashwin.jordan,stokes or pawan negi can be a good choice to fill these spots. Almost all IPL teams are set with their players with only Pune Super Gaints looking out for Overseas Indian Players. They will pick Ben Stokes but desperately require two Indian batsmen but there aren't any good players available. They will fight for Aditya Tare whom Mumbai Indians also will fighting for. Mumbai Indian will also be picking Ishant Sharma. Majority of the overseas players will be picked from England. From Australia only Mitchell Johnson and Ben Dunk, from New Zealand, Trent Boult and Corey Anderson and from South Africa only Imran Tahir will make it. has zaheer retired from ipl too? CRICFAN40999706, RCB definitely need a good Indian pacer, but that pacer cannot be RP Singh. I still remember him getting Jadeja's wicket off a big, big no-ball in the last ball of the innings, which was literally stealing defeat from the jaws of victory for RCB. Big no-no. @LODD, IPL attraction is its Supporters, Music and the Party's. you must try you will forget the rest.. for sure !! I hope pak players get to play ipl and india players psl But one thing for sure, the top auctioned players never play well that season, it's proven with pawan negi, irfan Pathan, Morris, yuvraj, now ishant, I don't know what goes behind the scenes for these players price tag @Armani777, the player himself chooses his base price Anyone has the full list? Hoping that the Afghan cricketers (Nabi, Shahzad, Rashid, Najibullah) get picked. And Kevin O'Brien of Ireland is picked too. These players deserve to play IPL Most of the players in the top pack are not in the top 10 T20 and ODI international ranking of ICC. I am wondering to see that Mohamamd Nabi ranking 3rd and 4th in T20 and ODI as a allrounder in ICC ranking, and 5th best all rounder in BPL 2016 season, is not in the top pack??????????????????? Srh -need to go for a quality spinner like Pawan negi or Pravin tambe. RCB -don't think they need any marquee foreigner like stokes but need a good Indian pacer like to RP Singh or Ishant Sharma. mi-a total package should just look for backup players like perera and maybe cummins kkr- need a good all-rounder like stokes or Corey's Anderson.might want Morne Morkel or some top order batsman. dd-would want Jason Roy and an Indian all -rounder like Irfan Pathan. kxip- might go for stokes or woakes with Ishant or boult rps-shoud look for Roy and Mathews also might want to go for tymil mills and finnaly my favourite team the Gujarat lions-batting looks solid should go all out for stokes if not stokes Corey Anderson or Chris woakes and need a real fas @dunger.bob: Even we Indians would love to see Indian players in other T20 leagues across the world but the work load on these Indian players is quite heavy most of these are not so physically built like overseas players to handle themselves with out major injuries. Its like an miracle if we don't have at least 1 Indian match per month through out the year. @srinivasan1317, jimbond: Unfortunately he would be picked, as teams need to fill in Indian players, I won't be surprised if he would be picked for a much higher price. @Doctor_038: One minor correction, its 4 overseas players per match. @riseofthebanglatigers: I'm not sure why none of the BD players were put into auction, may be BCB had objections or BD is playing matches during this season ? Mushfiq Rahim deserved the neglect considering his comments post WT20, Indian fans were livid bombarded SRH twitter page to exclude him, not sure if the same reason applies to these.. may be in future, we will get to know the reason @ DUNGER.BOB - Lol. The only one who came close to Warner last year was Kohli. There is no way we will let him go. He utilized Henriques and Cutting to the maximum potential. Hopefully we get Stokes this time and pick a couple of good Indian batsmen to ease the pressure off Warner. Attraction of IPL ?????......it's money !!!!!! Presumably Warner has been retained by the Sunrisers then? I mean, they haven't dumped him hoping for someone a bit better or anything have they. As an England Fan, I'm especially excited about this year's IPL. I really hope that Butler shows what he can do and that Stokes/Woakes get picked as they are both decent. Roy will be picked as he performed well in India recently - he is good and a great fielder but will get single figure scores often. Morgan seems to be hitting form at a good time. Jordon is a bit hit/miss but Mills can only bowl but does that very well. It is good that although many international players play, that the number fielded is limited to 3, this way many Indian players are involved.
Shame that there are not more/any Bang/Pak players playing, that would make it very interesting to all of the top 9 cricket playing nations. It is a great global competition although not quite as enthralling as an Ashes series! MI or Delhi or Panjab please buy ishanth sharma. You may loose this IPL without him. Rs. 2 CR is less for such a big talent. ;) There are a couple of teams, which look way too strong on paper. But at the end of the day, the team on paper doesn't matter, but the actual execution on the field does. It would be interesting to see the auction Plan of Mumbai Indians , Kings XI Punjab KKR while choosing the best Cricketers for team. KKR have been my team since day one but think losing Dre Rus could be costly, will need to bid big for Stokes and get Yusuf to convince them Ifran still has it. would also look at an overseas quick, I really like Cummins on the Eden Garden track and then rebuy Munro to offer a different option to Lynn who is in great form but also slightly injured. Negi could be a steal and as much as I love Jason Roy he would be a waste if he didnt play every game.
Gambhir, Uthappa, Pandey, Lynn, Stokes, Y Pathan, Al Hasan, Chawla, I Pathan, Narine, U Yadev
would offer batting all the way down to 10 (Narine did bat up the order for the Renegades) 3pace options and 3 spin options with Yusuf turning over his arm if need be. Cummins can come in on the faster wickets and against the top heavy indian teams that dont like the ball around their noses. SRH should go for Rashid Khan from Afghan as they desperately need quality spinner as well as attacking batsman at the end. With mularidaran as a mentor he will improve his bowling. With proper motivation he will do wonders just like fizz.
Let's go #OrengeArmy Stokes, with a T20
Average of just over 12..... Zaheer khan has retired from all forms of cricket including IPL. Last IPL was his final tournament Ishant must be kidding :-) @ Bengal-Tigers-Roar: Thanks man, that's a tremendous summing up of the situation. You guys really know your IPL don't you? I've seen a number of posts with amazing knowledge of the ins and outs of it all .. As a bit of a side issue, and probably controversially, I really wish the BCCI would relent on it's stance re Indian players in other leagues. I can vaguely understand their reasoning I suppose. My guess is they don't want to give any gravitas to the others by letting the likes of Kohli play in them. Product protection. It's understandable. Still, I know I'd love to see some seriously good Indians in our league just as there are some wonderfully capable foreign players in yours. I just wanna see good cricket. The economics and politics associated with it makes me angry to be honest. I guess I'm just an idealistic marooned in a brutally pragmatic world. It's not good for the blood pressure let me tell you ;) Mostly Ishant won't be auctioned due to high base price. SRH letting trent boult is understandable. Teams like rcb and RPS need a bowler like him. It was poor bowling that cost rcb the title last year. what about punjab? they need serious addition and chuck all the deadwoods. Will be interesting Auction for RCB, will they go for Stokes all out keeping coming seasons in mind or will they play the waiting game as we don't know what will be the Players Retention policy for the next auction. We have Watson Gayle this will probably the last season for them for RCB if not the IPL, one is 35 other is nearly 37 i guess. If RCB is looking for the coming seasons, they have to go for Stokes as a replacement for Watson. If 4 players retention policy is carried forward as last time for next season, RCB will retain Kohli,ABD, Starc Kedar/Rahul. I prefer Kedar any day over Rahul. Rahul has lot of flaws in his technique temperament. Coming to Stokes, he's like a moderate version of Morris. Morris has got that extra 10 clicks under in him. Morris getting that ball to nip back at that pace is really hard to hit, similarly Stokes is a lot like Morris both can bat as well. As a RCB fan, I would go for Morris in the next auction if he is availb wich is vry unlikely If the teams are sensible, Ishant Sharma would not be bought this season. He has priced himself out of the market Considering the relaid Eden Gardens is hand's down the most seamer friendly track in the country (of all major venues), I don't think KKR can continue to afford the galactico spin bowling line up they have. Come 2018, anyone from Hogg Shakib or Narine will be released. Considering the talismanic role Narine plays for KKR and Shakib being a fine all rounder I guess it would be Hogg. They'll certainly not going to play 3 spinners in their home games now on. So a good foreign quick, a good foreign all-rounder, that's what they'll be bidding for. The 5 bowlers will be 1 foreign quick, Umesh/ Rajput, 1 foreign all-rounder, Shakib / Narine , Chawla / Kuldip with Yousuf Pathan as the 6th bowler. That leaves them with a scope of 1 foreign batsman, can be Munro or someone to open as Robin's form has been a little disappointing off late. So Billings is my bet, as he can keep and open both, something which is needed if they replace Robin Delhi were stupid to let go of Tahir. He is a top limited overs player. Contd. Royal Challengers- Last year's runners up have a gun squad with hardly any holes. In fact, the talk of Ben Stokes is odd since they almost don't have a spot for him in the squad unless they are done with Watson. Some may point at their bowling but even that was on the back of injuries to two of their biggest weapons- Starc and Badree. Even Aravind has been in great form. Between Badree, Chahal and Shamsi their spin attack is sorted but they'd probably look for another Indian pacer just in case.
.
.
Sunrisers- While they were winners last year, it was almost entirely on the back of Warner having a superlative season and a pace attack that was the envy of every other team. They take the same qualities into this edition with the hope of filling some of the holes. A spinner of pedigree is an absolute must with the most obvious candidate being Imran Tahir. A couple of middle order batsmen should also be on the cards, in fact letting Morgan go just when he's hit form is a tad odd. RPS should contract local players from Maharashtra like Ankit Bawane and Anupam Sankalecha. May be even Chirag Khurana. They are familiar with MCA ground and will help immensely in this season. And don't know why even though this will 5th IPL season where there will be a team representing Pune. But not once they have got Pune or Maharashtra Ranji team player selected. I wonder why? Ni Bangladeshi rubbish Rising Pune should not have released Handscomb. It was a good move to release Ishant Sharma (sheer waste of money to have this player even warming the bench). RPS should look for any of the two Tymal Mills, Chris Jordan, Kyle Abbott. RPS should have retained M Ashwin and either of RP Singh and Irfan Pathan. wen will be the ipl auction 2017..? SRH are well placed to steal again in this auctions. The reason is they are sure to get one of the top 3 players since they are 3rd in purse money 21Cr. They just need to buy only one of Roy/Stokes/Anderson and spinner Pawan Negi. Ideally they should be buying Negi along with another uncapped local spinner for cheap bucks. Its a shame they let go off players like KL Rahul and Amit Mishra though. SRH XI: 1 Dhawan 2 Warner 3 Hooda 4 Yuvraj 5 Henriques 6 Corey Anderson/Stokes 7 NOjha 8 Negi 9 Bhuvaneshwar 10 Nehra 11 Mustafizur SRH XI: 1 Dhawan 2 Warner 3 Jason Roy 4 Yuvraj 5 Henriques 6 Hooda 7 NOjha 8 Negi 9 Bhuvaneshwar 10 Nehra 11 Mustafizur mi should go for players in following departments:
batting:jason roy,tom latham,eoin morgan
all rounders:chris woakes,mitchell johnson,mitchell santner,colin munro,irfan pathan,moeen ali
bowling:pat cummins,morne morkel,m ashwin,basil thampi players DD need to buy in this auction - ishant sharma to replace zaheer or shami if injured
stokes/corey andreson - all rounder and a good middle order batsman. both of them perform more than braithwaite. could also go for Jason Roy as he can open the innings with QDK.
DD X1 - De kock, Iyer, Pant, Billings, Samson, Stokes, Morris, Jayant, Shami, Mishra, Zaheer Delhi need Pat cummins, Mitchel Johnson Ben stokes I understand that Pakistani players won't get chance in IPL. But what about the Bangladeshi players? There are Sabbir, Tamim, Mahmudullah and Miraj. How can u avoid them? I don't get it. Both RCB and SRH went for Fizz in last auction. But RCB thought Fizz doesn't deserve more than that and then SRH picked him up and rest is the history. SRH beat RCB in the final and Fizz was the emerging player of the tournament. Fizz deserved more than what he got in d auction. Don't underestimate Bangladeshi players. It will cost u a lot in the end. For those saying rcb can buy only one overseas player are wrong as they can purchase more than one overseas player in this year auction and sale some of their players in the final window trading that is post auction to make the total overseas players to 9. so players like milne and shamsi can be traded post auction if needed. @DUNGER.BOB: I think KKR would go for Pat again. Both him and Pattinson have been a part of KKR before , but only Pat has played a few games for KKR. But towards the end of the last season Pat replaced Morkel as our first choice foreign quick. Also I think he will like the new Eden Pitch, easily the bounciest and quickest Test venue in India. My heart wants KKR to go for Mitch and Pat, but head says it should be Pat and Rabada/Woakes coz both Mitch and Pat tend to go for runs on the flatter tracks in the rest of the country. But the prospect of a 4 pronged seam attack of Pat,Mitch,Yadav,Stokes with Narine/Shakib and Chawla as the spin attack on a bouncy Eden deck looks daunting. I also predict that KKR wont play more than 2 spinners in the home games from now on. And if Narine goes cold early on then probably they will have Shakib as the only spinner in the squad coz he is actually a world class a/r. @BBNN, good to know. read about Basil recently. also just saw that Sandeep is not part of RCB. probably was dropped last season itself. Rcb-They need a Indian Pace Bowler.With Starc already there there is no room for a overseas bowler.Ishant,Nathu Singh are the two.But Nathu would be better.
Kxip-They need to play Marsh more.Vijay And marsh opening would be good.Maxwell,Miller Stoinis would be good in middle order.In bowling they need a spinner and a pace bowler or they would definetly come last.
Mohit,Sandeep,Axar,Stoinis,Maxwell.lot of options if u add Ishant and another spinner like rasool they have a strong side.
RPS-Batting heavy side
Need bowlers and Indian Bowlers.
GL-Need a good Middle order indian Batsmen.
KKR-biggest blow russel is out.Need allrounder.Matthews or Stokes would be perfect.Need a backup bowler.Thampi would be good.
DD-Need a quality all rounder and a finisher.Backup for Shami and Zak again Nathu singh will be good.
SRH-Overdependent on Warner.Need a Quality Batsman and a Indian.
MI-Every department Covered as many would say.But need a bowler and a indian one-M Ashwin.Batsmen-Roy.All Rounder too. i think KKR need 2 all rounders like B.STOKES IRFAN PATHAN because no A.RUSSEL this time @SAJU343 ,it is not upcoming,the tournament is almost over only knockout stages are remaining.And irfan was not so great with the ball,but he played a match winning 70 odd runs in a match Was going through the list of retained players for each team and saw that the RPS have retained Ashok Dinda. I once read somewhere that there's this unfortunate record attached with him that whichever team he's played for in the 9 IPLs so far, that team hasn't made it to the top 4, ever!
Not sure if there's any other capped player who holds such a dubious distinction. Danger signs for RPS; sometimes you've got to follow these silly signs to make decisions if nothing else's working :-) @abdullahfahd . Most of those guys cant even get a place in sri lankas mediocre t20 squad . No chance for them here unless someone goes for thisara @ABHIJITH CHENNAT Now basil Thampi is very impressive ,he was bowling over 140 regularly in SMA T20 Thanks for the clarification @samu Contd. Kolkata- Their problems start right at the top. Uthappa's form this season has been so dismal, he was actually dropped from the Karnataka squad. Gambhir is getting on with age so it would be interesting to see if he can continue to surprise in IPLs. The likes of Hales, Jason Roy, Unmukt Chand and domestic T20 form guy Tanmay Agarwal would be people they'd like to go after. Their biggest blow though would be Andre Russell. They'd probably pursue Stokes or Woakes to fill that gap. Their spin attack is adequately populated but they need to buy a few pacers. Maybe they'll go for Boult or Kyle Abbott to fill that gap. Mumbai- To start off, they need to address their problem right at the top- a partner for Rohit Sharma. Jason Roy is the obvious choice to fill that gap and I'm not here to disagree. They also need a few Indian bodies in the middle order as the likes of Krunal, Hardik and Nitish Rana may be slightly mercurial. If everyone is fit their bowling looks sorted. Contd. not sure if anyone knows. there's a very consistent pacer in Kerala named Sandeep Warrier. a wicket taker and currently in RCB squad. hope he gets some games this season. @ THEREALMVP : 9 overseas slots available this year, as far as I remember, the figure was 10 till last year. @DC75 : MI have won the title twice and have also won the champions league twice. Been part of all qualifiers barring 3. Cant rate it as under-achievement. and I am not so sure why everyone is going gaga over Roy, cant play spin to save his life. Got out to Jadeja twice on ODI, Chahal on couple of occasions too. Teams will start with spin at one end to exploit the chink in his armour! This Time sri Lanka have produced some great talents for t20 which hopefully they get selected by IPL. Thisara Perera, Niroshan Dickwella, Lahiru Kumara, Dilshan Munaweera, Shehan Jayasuriya, Milinda Siriwardane, Chamara Kapugedara, Seekuge Prasanna and Upul Tharanga. Will see,, Is there a maximum no. Of overseas players that a team can have in their squad ? Anyone know? SANJAY NAIDU - VVS was brain behind the SRH winning the IPL last year, making Warner captain and bringing in Fizz from BD helped strengthen the team and eventually Warner's captaincy (and of course batting) got them the trophy. By the way SRH (previously DC) have won 2 IPL trophies so far - not bad,and much better than what RCB, DD and to an extent MI have achieved, don't you think? And SRH/DC always had VVS as part of their think tank. Jason holder,Nathan Lyon,Brad haddin all 3 surely will go unsold. 1.5 crores as base price is too much for them. Haddin has the same base price for several years. Pawan negi has understood the trick , he has set his base price as 30 lakhs. There Rising supergiants pune will bid for him and finally he will win a deal of 1 crore and so. Ishant sharma too has set his base price way higher. 2crore is too much for him. But I guess RCB will buy ishant as they dont have a good indian bowler. Jason Roy has set himself a perfect base price of 1 crore. He will get a good deal of amount at the end of the auction. Does Gollapudi realise that just because seven players set their own base price at the highest possible level, it doesn't mean that they are the top draws and top attractions ? Morgan is absolutely dreadful, yet he and Mathews have the same price. I know who I would rather have in a squad, out of the two (Mathews, to be clear!). Johnson has been an absolute disaster for the Kings XI, with Sandeep Sharma showing exactly how to bowl in all parts of the innings, yet Johnson leaks runs at all times, barely gets a wicket, and when he does, it's inconsequential. Sandeep, Anureet and Mohit are excellent, though the side shouldn't have released Rishi or Abbott. Is the deadline at the end of Friday, or the end of Sunday? If it's the latter, franchises have the chance to see certain overseas players in the PSL, like Bopara and Samit, who are available, and would be very useful. Each PSL side plays twice by Sunday night, so scouting can take place. Btw, Benny Howell would be a smart signing. Irfan pathan could be an interesting player if he play well in the west zone team for upcoming mushtaq ali 20 20. Okay... So my two cents... Delhi- Top heavy with de Kock, Iyer, Rishabh and Billings all able to open. Though they have Karun Nair and Samson to follow, they probably should invest in another middle order batsman or a batting all rounder- Stokes or Corey fitting the bill. Their spinners are well covered but an Indian pacer to as back-up to Zaheer and Shami would be great. Ishant could finally play for his home franchise. Kings XI- On paper, their batting line up should be the best going around. Amla, Miller, Marsh and Maxwell along with Vijay, Saha, Vohra and Gurkeerat sounds great but the last time they all clicked with any consistency was TWO years back. With the recent rise of Stionis their batting really looks sorted. Their pace attack is lacking people with actual pace though so a real strike bowler wouldn't go amiss. Their spin attack is lacking with the exception of Axar and I expect them to go for the likes of Tambe, Karn Sharma and Parvez Rasool. Contd. Sunrisers will go for Ishant, RCB will go for Stokes and rest of the franchises will fight for Jason Roy and Pawan Negi (strange but true, considering how effective he was in CSK). Alex Hales and many of Rs.1.5Cr base priced foreign players may go unsold. Come April Jonny Bairstow needs to be playing proper cricket for Rising Leaves Yorkshire Tea and not sitting on his bum in Hydrabad getting all red and sweaty. Just give him the money for being a good lad - you can afford it. I trust the ECB, who have not put a block on players signing up to the IPL it seems , do not 'rest' those who do not get picked from the County Championship games in England. It is a bit of a nonsense if they do. The team that buy jason Roy will win! Curious to see which franchise buy Jason Roy.He is another dynamic player from England. I wish MI go for him. Just one buy ( Jason Roy) will be enough for MI to emerge as strong contenders for IPL 2017... Ishant Sharma is useless bowler.Having played international cricket for so long he does not know how to bowl where to bowl.... No one's gonna buy Matthews for that price, being as fragile as a flower couple of games into the season he's gonna be out with injury. Ben Stokes would be picked by RCB. As they only have one overseas player slot remaining .They would go all out for this all rounder .They are in search of Indian Pacer and not overseas pacer so Tymall Mills wouldnot be in their radar. Trent Boult would be better choice over Tymall Mills. Pawan negi...???,who is he??ever played for India?Delhi bought him for such huge amount ..???I'll mystery abt player prices continue....Hahaha...BTW no mention of abd n gayle in this article. Surprised. I don't expect anyone to believe me but Pat Cummins is a slumbering mega-star of the game. Since his latest come-back he's been gradually building up his stamina and match fitness. He's currently bowling in the upper 140's but, and this is the thing, he's still bowling within himself. I believe he has another 5-10 k's in him and that will start to become evident as his strength and conditioning gets towards the optimal. He has a couple of different slower balls and can get seam in both directions. He can also hit the ball nearly as cleanly as Ben Cutting. I hope someone picks him up and he gets a chance to show us what he's got. He's worth every single cent of the asking price I reckon. Ishant sharma is an antique uptron television in the era of curved LEDs. lol that's why this price Rabada, lungi would surely picked by RCB on ABDs recommendation.... Virat would go all guns on them... KKR , Mumbai and pune would go for stokes and woakes for sure...... Roy, hales and Corey for sure by SRH.... But stokes will be the man to watch out for.... Hope few of the promising Afghan players get a good deal than the overconfident Bangla players.... Just a matter of time before Bangla will be out done by afghanistan in a matter of years... Is there some Afghan players in this IPL Auction ? Did I read correctly?? Bangladesh players are out of auction roster along with Pakistan players? can anybody throw some light on it? Where can we get the entire list of 799 players...? @SANKARVASUDEVAN Couldnt agree more. Wasnt it Einstein that said Repeating the same thing expecting different results is stupidity. . However we would miss the sight of the ball soaring into the night skies. Rabada should get a killer deal . @Dhawala05 , sadly i dont think that any of our sl players will get picked this time .Not even one . We have no real t20 players at all and malinga is injured . Mathews has probably set his base price too high to get selected . His thinking probably being all or nothing , so that if not sekected he can have a much needed break to get himself fully fit . If selected then its for the best price People commenting on Ishant should remember that Ishant sharma is an Indian. Indians draw more amount than foreigners as we can include only 4 foreigners in the playing XI. DD has good batsmen, good spinners and good pacers too. They have good all-rounders in form of Morris, Barathwait and Duminy. But they don't have good all-rounders from IND. They they would like to add domestic all-rounders along with couple of pacers. They have maximum purse and just need to buy 2-3 players, hence they can spend a lot. They would go for Stokes, Mills/Boult/Abbott. Indian all-rounders such as Irfan pathan can also be in the frame. Delhi will also be looking to buy back its local boy Ishant Sharma to replace injury prone Zaheer/Shami. In this auction mahipal lamror 18 years old rajasthani cricketer is my first choice on base price. CRICKET_FIRST_PRIORITY ,Does IPL pic players who doesn't play international cricket? Lyon at 1.5c seriously, my gosh. Ishant ..2 crore.lol....if he gets sold, that would be the most ridiculous sale of this IPL ESPNCricinfo...Please enable reply in the Comments section. Some of the comments will surely get double digit replies...sample: From DHAWALA05 Thisara Perera and Seekuge Prasanna will be the top picks in this time ipl auction . This auction is going to be dominated by the English players. Lots of them: Roy, Bairstow, Stokes, Woakes and Mills- all likely to be picked. What about Moeen Ali? and Rashid? RCB requires Indian players. They have overseas galacticos - AB, Gayle, Shane Watson, Mitchell Starc and worthy others as well Samuel Badree, Chris Jordan. And of course Indian stars - Kohli, Rahul, Chahal etc. They need an Indian pacer and all rounder. Jason Roy, Sam Billings, Tymal Mills, Jordan and Ben Stokes shd find takers. Bairstow hasn't had T20 play time but is a dependable explosive batsman. Boult justifies the price but feel Cummins and a few others have inflated their costs. Havnt heard of Krunal even in the state T20 tourney so if he is injured.. I wd pick Prassana as the team wd lack balance otherwise. As a diehard RCB fan... This season can only get better by the virtue of winning IPL finally... Few changes and add ons I feel would settle their bowling woes.... RCB should go for Mills and rabada, as starc even if he is ready to play the entire season.. depends on the Aussie board.... Plus RCB should manage starc's work load effectively..... Go for irfan Pathan at all cost as binny can be a bunny at times.... Pick nathu Singh, pankaj and lormor .... Ideal RCB 11 rahul, gayle,kohli, abd,jadhav,sarfaraz,pathan/binny, starc, rabada/badree , chahal, aravind..... Kohli, I guess has learnt the hard way in the last few years..... I'm sure he will make this season his very own... Go for it King kohli.... Interesting to see how the defending champs would fare... Especially mustafizur.... I'm sure his effectiveness is on the wane.... Interesting season ahead... Ishant Sharma... 2 crores.. really? It is useless to select pure batsman from these Non SC teams in IPL. They struggle big time against spin. May be someone so special like ABDV and Gyle have a place but not players like Morgan. His role can be better played by any Indian ODI player. Teams need to invest on alrounders that too worldclass ones not for Perara etc who struggle themselves in International circket. Ishant Sharma? Really? He cant even get into the Indian team can he? I've put myself in the game at a mere 150 000. I can save these teams big money. Call me now. lol...Pawan negi at 30 lakh now. what a pay cut that would be. Ishant is unfit for shorter formats @subhash Youve obviously never seen Lyon in domestic t20.....is better statistically than every indian spinner in the past 2 years I wouldn't even pay 20 cents for Ishant. For the uninformed commenters - these are prices that the players have themselves put up. If there is no interest at this price, they will go unsold. That said, Ishant Sharma really over-estimates himself! I think Stokes, Jason Roy and Bairstow will be the most sought after players this auction CRICINFOUSER: I think you don't know the logic why Ishant Sharma is capped at 2 cr? Because he is an Indian player as 7 players from India can play and 4 are foreign players.. so the window for foreign players are limited. Hence, whoever Indian players left on the table would have higher demand ... contd..
Not for nothing did Nasser Hussain call it similar to the Perth pitch of the 2000s. Easily the best fats bwling track in Ind, which helped Bengal's pace brigade in the Ranjis. But now both the local teams Bengal and KKR are hard done by. Ranji is played in neutral venues and KKR has perhaps the best collection of spinners ever assembled for T20s. SLCs Yadav and Hogg, leggie Chawla, SLA Shakib and offie cum mystery spinner Narine. However KKR has a history of selecting out and out foreign quicks. Shoaib,Bond,Lee,Cummins,Morkel,Pattinson all who have a single 'f' in their bowling classification by cricinfo, have all played for KKR. Now those types will be needed more than ever b4. In fact I think KKR will move to a pace oriented attack by the end of this season. Possibly the last time we see Hogg,Chawla,Kuldeep in KKR and maybe GG as well. They would want Indian batters who are good against pace to open for them. Pandey/Shakib as future captains. KKR would want to/have to go for 2 premium foreign quicks with 1 top class quick bowling a/r for Russell's spot. Amongst the available options that a/r is Stokes with a Woakes and CDG tied as a distant 2nd. In fact Woakes could be one of their pure foreign quicks as well. Personally I would liek them to go for Johnson and Cummins as the 2 quicks with Woakes/Rabada as 2nd option. KKR is the most hard done by franchise this yr due to the Eden Garden's pitch. As was seen in the test vs NZ and the ODI vs ENG , the pitch has completely changed it's nature due to being relaid. The permanent change in nature is similar to the one in Perth since the 2012 SA test. In fact just like WACA, CAB has said that the EG wont be a turner until its again relaid , decades later i.e. EG now has pace and bounce and can be made green as well. For non-locals, imagine the bounce of Mumbai/Dharamshala combined with the pace of Lahli , all that and somewhat magnified as well. contd.. @TipTop32 - I appreciate your concern about potentially too many foreigners in the IPL. Having 20 of the best foreign players in the world in the league is one thing - recruiting relatively mediocre foreign players to take the place of local lads is when the alarm bells begin ringing. Believe me as an Englishman - our domestic football top-flight has descended in farce and around 73% of starting XIs in the Premier League consist of foreign footballers. It's a disgrace and I wouldn't dream of paying a penny to support this nonsense. The main difference however, is the Premier League is England's premier football competition - the Ranji Trophy is India's - and that is still in good shape as far as producing Test players is concerned. The IPL is the equivalent of Rugby 7s or 6-a-side football - it isn't quite proper, as it were. Indeed - it isn't cricket. So don't worry about it. Lol why is eng players going for so much. I mean I like the eng team they are a good bunch of folks but really they lost to pak and ind recently and wj in wc. Angelo Mathews also put himself in this top list, wow on what basis Angi? So prone to injury, carrying extra weight, not doing well as a true all-rounder, guiding the team as a Captain to disaster, and you expects one of the IPL franchise would pick you at that high price? Good luck Mathew! I would stop watching cricket for my entire life if any of the franchise picks him up for the price he is listed himself. Lets See! Apologies for the English analogy, and label me an old cynic but when players - especially overseas players - talk of the appeal of the IPL, I am immediately reminded of that old Mrs Merton sketch; the one where Caroline Ahern asks Debbie McGee: What first attracted you to the millionaire Paul Daniels! What about Local Indian Fast Bowlers over the 140 kmph mark?
Consider
1. B. Thampi
2. Chama Milind
3. A. Chaudhary
4. Sandeep warrier Is Ross Taylor included?...if so he could be worth a quite bet Rovman Powell will be the big buy of the ipl. People are not understanding the fact that English players have kept their base prices high, because they will lose money from county contract everyday they play for IPL, so less money doesn't cut the bill. If they are not picked in IPL auction, they will still play the county. If the Franchisees are clever enough, they will bid the top $ for Angelo Mathews... The guy is incredible under pressure and reads the game better than any player around. He also has the ability to hit big specially against the spin and more than handy with the ball (specially with the off cutters). Add to all that, he is a leader who can Captain any team and also a good student and a team player.. So forget about some of the overhyped players like Stokes or Johnson. Mathews is the real deal..! Ish Sodhi is the dark horse, shame NZ didn't give him a crack in the last ODI, he will do well in Indian Conditions and he isn't a mug with the bat either. SRH will go for stokes for sure, they need a big hitter at the end, that is what all is missing in the team. Should have left morgan, he is a catch at that price tag, should have left kane. SRH (or DC) logic baffels me, leaving kl rahul(and rohit sharma) is what we call lack of vision, better drop VVS laxman first. SRH also need a quality WK so hopefully they find someone to replace naman someday. Morgan is in good for me. He batted better than any other player from England in the completed tour. He is the only player who faced jadejas bowling with ease. I believe his best game is started and going to last long. hahahahaha, really every one of afghan cricket star , Nabi, Shahzad, Rashid, will be farbetter than this high priced players, they are the really winer of t20, the stars , hope to se them in IPL this year I think the foreign players influence must be curtailed in IPL. When IPL was started India did not had many T20 players, so foreign players needed. Now that there is more and more players emerging from domestic cricket, we can keep the number of foreign players in each team to 2 instead of 4. Also none of the teams should have foreign player as captain. Captaincy must be left to local players. These are the players whom I would expect franchisees to go very actively after : KKR : Stokes, Woakes, Abbott, Morgan. MI : Mathews, Hales, Pawan Negi. RCB : Tymal Mills, Woakes, Munro, Cummins. SRH : Seekuge Prasanna, Cummins, Imran Tahir, Pravin Tambe. RPS : Boult, Roy, Woakes, Johnson, Mills, RP Singh. GL : Stokes, Woakes, Johnson, Tymal Mills, Jason Holder. DD : Tymal Mills, Unmukt Chand. KXIP : Imran Tahir, Jason Roy, Paras Dogra, Seekuge Prasanna. Ben Stokes this year will be the most expensive overseas player . He will fetch atleast 1.2 million USD. Why do I feel like Johnny Bairstow, Jason Holder, Brad Haddin, Ishant Sharma will go unsold? Morgan is expensive too! IPL needs multi faceted player, at least foreign players because of the 4 per XI limitations or impact foreign players who make a bigggg difference in one department like Hales, Buttles or all rounders like Stokes, Woakes. Lol Ishant Sharma? 2 crore? This league is a joke RCB : Need bowlers! Especially Indian. So they will probably go for Ishant. They could also go for Tymal Mills.
MI : A well balanced team. Could go for Karn Sharma to lend support to Bhajji in the spin department.
KKR: Need international batsmen in their top order. So, they would probably be looking at Morgan, Bairstow or even Hales and Roy. Roy should be the one though.
SRH: Spinners! So young guns like M.Ashwin and Rasool.
DD: Backups for their injury prone pacers- Zak and Shami. So Nathu Singh, Irfan for them.
KXI: Jason Roy! They dearly need a big hitting opener. And an international pacer like Tymal Mills, Woakes. Could also go for Stokes.
RPS: Probably the weakest team, they need to get a lot of bases covered. They should go all out for Stokes and Boult. And indians like Negi, and a few young indian pacers like Nathu Singh.
GL: They would want a middle order player like Saurabh or Manoj Tiwary.
Plus a few bowlers with some 'Pace' unlike PK and Kulkarni. Would be interesting to see how Santner and Seekuge Prasanna fare in the auctions - would be handy all rounders for many franchisees though might be difficult to fit amongst the 4 overseas players for many of them... would be great to have them in the mix though.. The biggest joke is Nathan Lyon commanding a base price of 1.5 cr .. LOL :)))))) someone would really have to be completely out of their senses to pick him -;) Considering all the ungrateful SL cricket fans calling for his head, if I were Mathews, personally I would just retire and make a fortune playing in england, the IPL and other t20 leagues. His med pace offcutters are perfect in t20 and although he hasn't done well in the IPL his batting skill set is perfect for it and I predict he will do very well this year. Hopefully RCB will take him Srh wants a good spinner batsman's.warner only handling total pressure. My dream team is warner(c),dhawan,henriques,Ben cutting,yuvraj singh,naman ojha,pawan negi,bipul sharma,buvneswar Kumar, ashish nehra,musthafizur rehman.now we have 7 batsmen's without bipul sharma.8 bowlers including yuvi negi.5 allrounders with bipul sharma. Hates off to ishant sharma's managar for keeping high price cause he knows with restriction on number of indian player in each team, even in last(panic) round of auction one of the will throw any money to fill-up their indian fast bowler slot.. Id sat pay the likes of Ishant, Umesh and send them to county for a season or two provided they get picked. Ditto with Vijay, Pujara, Rahane KKR will pick Stokes especially with Russell not playing. He should be hot pick in the auction. KXIP should pick Imran Tahir as spin bowling is their weak link. Most Sri Lankan players are mediocre so would not expect them to be picked in the auction. Same is the case with Haddin and Lyon - am sure no one would pick them even for 30L ! Mathews would be lucky to be picked too given his base price. The only player from SL who should be picked is Seekuge Prasanna - a good spinning all rounder. Tymal Mills at 50L would be handy for many franchisees. @SAMPU_SHAIKH: Shaikh sahab, do you think Dhawan, Santner, Cutting, N.Ojha are good batsman. Yuvraj and Mooen are good, but inconsistent. No batsman in the team you have selected except Warner. Worst team ever. My un-elaborated observation about the positive benefits of playing IPL was related to the three English players mentioned in the article, none of whom demonstrated those benefits massively in the recent T20 India series despite all having played for at least one IPL series (more in Morgan's case). DD should just go for 1 big bid in the auctions. And that 1 guy should be Roy or Stokes. The 4 international players should be:
1) Quinton
2) Morris
3) Billings or Duminy (depending on form and opposition)
4) Roy / Stokes If they get Roy, Quinton and Roy can open with Pant at 3 If they get Stokes, Quinton and Pant can open with Stokes at 5 or 6. They can then also afford to play a 3rd spinner (Nadeem) instead of Shami. I know they have Brathwaite too, but its better to have a genuine allrounder like Stokes than a bits pieces guy who can hit big once a while. Quinton, Pant, Nair, Samson, Billings/Duminy, Stokes, Morris, Jayant, Zak, Mishra, Shami OR Quinton, Roy, Pant, Nair, Billings/Duminy, Samson, Morris, Jyant, Zak, Mishra, Nadeem How can a player lyk mathews put himself for so much amount when he is a failure in his own team.. I would rather lyk to watch Roy, Stokes, Billings, Mohd Shehzad, Mohd Nabi, Pant in this IPL.. Lol@ Ben Stokes' price. Over rated wasted space. Where's Tymal Mills? Him and The Fizz are gonna be the best death bowlers in the league SRH really needs a good wicket taking Indian spinner in the line up. Karn Sharma has been released. Not sure which spinner in the lot is up for grabs. They can't afford an overseas spinner (Moeen/Santner) since they let Eoin Morgan go as they already have Warner, Williamson and Henriques in red hot form and have Cutting as a back up. Mustafizur will grab the last overseas slot. I can only think of Negi, Tambe or M Ashwin. Can some one throw in some more Indian spinners into the list? Wish SRH could get Amit Mishra back. Letting him go was a mistake. As an RCB fan, what Virat needs is a couple of bowlers whom he can throw the ball and not worry about getting hit for 14+ runs in the final overs, which he was missing in the last season. With Starc being fit (as of now), Badri being available, Chahal Arvind doing nice and Watto's wicket taking skills, he needs another fast bowler who is atleast 70-80% Starc...Probably add another alrounder in case of Watto's injury OR to add some extra balance...I would like RCB to go with England's Mills, even though that will make 3 Lefties in the side, he seems really good for this format. I don't think Ishant Sharma did a wrong thing he's not someone many teams would want but being an Indian he had very high chances of being picked by one team so there won't be a bidding war for him but he is guaranteed to be sold so why not keep the base price itself high tough I agree by his standards it's damn too high so this is why Matthews was rested. Have to have him top notch for IPL. With Jayawardane at helm of affairs, MI might go for likes of Mathews, or Dickwelle, along with usual contenders like Stokes and Roy, or even Moeen Ali. KKR will also look for services of Mathews and will suit their low and slow turning tracks. Boult can be a hot property with Punjab/RCB looking for a premier fast bowler!
RCB might also go all out for Stokes with just 1 overseas slot left! but will face stiff competition from Gujarat Lions as well as they might be missing services of Dwyane Bravo! Ishant has really played smart here. Might get sold for his base price only, but thats a solid amount for a struggling T20 bowler! @cricfan58119642 good point mate but based on form and credentials I guess a certain Mohmand shezad is a good wicketkeepr batsman too also he's in the top 10 ranking in t20s but his inexperience might cost him and Bairstow or Haddin come as better options. also based on big bash performances Ben dunk and tim Paine are also the names that come up a very interesting auction is coming up Good luck to all the England players in the ipl continue to play well and be humble. @Arvpoov Argrawal I will be shocked if Sanga gets chosen over those two given he was dropped from Hobart Hurricanes mid-season this BBL just past. The man is not in t20 form. Haddin however had a decent season and Bairstow is a better player again. looking forward to Delhi Daredevils mad auction strategy again..... Cummins will get injured again, lol Sharm? Really! @anuajm. Really a smart move by Ishant. Will get to play maximum half of the matches and may not even get to bowl the full quota in majority of those matches. Hence, he might get to bowl max 20 overs in the entire tournament. So, he would end up earning Rs.10 lacs per over even if he gets selected at his base price! The few runs that he scores (if at all) and the catches that he latches on, will be a bonus for the franchise.
One should rather opt for players like Ben Stokes, Jason Ray, Angelo Mathews, Butler, etc. Often some players are available for so ridiculous price that for the price of one Ishant, one can get atleast four upcoming talented players. SRH: 1 WARNER (c) 2 Dhawan 3 N Ojha (wk) 4 Yuvraj 5 CUTTING 6 MOEEN/SANTNER 7 Hooda 8 Bhuvneshwar 9 Sran 10 Nehra 11 MUSTAFIZUR.... This team gives them a strong T20 top 6 batting line-up along with 8 genuine bowling options (5 seam and 3 spin). Hard to see a better team on paper. Jason Roy is my pick and top of the list. I don't own any franchise to hire him though! Hihihihi As long as teams don't just look at stats... must be what the likes of Stokes are praying hard all the time. I agree with Jason Roy being the better option. Far more consistent. Boult has a more realistic chance of getting in than Woakes. kkr r going to get ben stokes at higher price watch out I think SRH should opt back for Morgan but that increases the already lefty dominant side so a Jonny Bairstow or Brad Haddin or better Kumar sangakara(if he's in the list) for a middle order spot this also gives the team a good middle order batsman who is consistent and around whom others can hit around and if needed they themselves can also this gives Naman Ojha a chance to perform or if he doesn't bat good (his keeping skills are very good though) can be dropped and they can utilise they spot also someone like santner or Tahir for a good spinning option Even if a franchise has an unlimited purse, they wouldn't go for Ishant Sharma. 2cr for a player who is not a regular in the international arena due to poor form and injuries? Yeah right. Boult and Stokes would be top picks. Smart move by Ishant, as an Indian fast bowler, he has great chances of getting picked but interest levels will be low, so possibly one franchise will pick Ishant without any further bidding, better to get 2 crores rather than lose 50 l - 1 crore by listing themselves low. With England players, availability will be an issue but as usual MI might eye Stokes. Bairstow is a better option as he is a wk too. Roy looks the most exciting bet for IPL. No way Matthews is gettign 2 crores as well Woakes. I am hoping Abbott and Tymal Mills get a jackpot, they definitely deserve it as well should make an impact in IPL specially Mills, looks like a very good 20-20 bowler. Interesting auctions coming up!! pat Cummins is an interesting prospect he hits the deck hard with impressive speed and with his latest performances with bat in bid bash and for Aussies vs NZ he looks a good hard hitting all-rounder suited for t20s Although I like Roy and Hales I highly doubt they would be brought in this years auction. Reason being is what IPL Teams need is a 2 in 1 player and almost all 8 teams have seasoned and set top order batsmen. Last year Guppy and Khawaja suffered the same fate in the auction. And this years highest price would be undoubtedly goes for Ben Stokes and I am expecting either DD or KXIP to go big for him and am hoping RCB, MI to not to bid becuase all though this two teams bid what they do is bench him. Kyle abbot will have to play County according to his deal for majority of tone during the IPL so who'd buy him I have to say I would love to see J Roy batting with QDK! @espnfan59 there are 5 overseas players in your team Roy QDK Billings Morris and tymal also the world cup sensation Braithwaite is missing and finally no Jayant Yadav after his impressive performances in the last couple of matches in last year's IPL also his capabilities seen when he played for India against England Where are martin guptill jimmy nessham colin munro ben dunk tim paine chris lynn george bailey richardson pearson stoinis MI needs to buy Jason Roy to open with Rohit Sharma and probably they can bid for either Trent Boult or Pat Cummins as well as a backup for Lasith Malinga, who spends more time on treatment table than cricket field. @GEOFFBOYC Ask PAK players or their coach Arthur, he says we lose cause we don't play in IPL. Warner's captaincy came to the light in IPL only and so was Warne's. DD team - Roy Decock Pant Nair Shreyas Billings Morris Mishra Zaheer Shami Tymal I feel roy should have had a higher price. he performed exceptionally well in the odi series. and i hope kyle abbott is happy now. 20 million rupees will surely be enough to buy groceries and pay bills . he didnt have to leave south africa. Do players list their own base price? Some of these prices look rather high given that the players will be put back into the auction in 2018. Many of these players could end up being unsold, and might have been better off perhaps listing more realistic prices. DD should get Jason Roy Tymal Mills, imagine Roy Decock opening with Pant one down. Missleading statement in the report: players from Bangladesh are not banned from IPL like Pakistan players. Already two Bangladesh players r retained by their teams: Shakib and Mustafizur. Just this time IPL teams didn't consider any other Bangladesh players. pawan negi from 8.5 crore to 30 lakhs are Mathews and Ishant day dreaming? I wouldn't pay them 20lakhs forget about 2 crores. I wonder if the so-called positive influence of playing the IPL is in any way related to the players' bank balances rather than the improvement in their game. With Russel banned KKR are left with only 3 overseas player will be forced to go for seaming all rounder. Unfortunately no one can replace Russel's lower order hitting. Big loss for KKR and probably will make them go for change of strategy. Thisara Perera and Seekuge Prasanna will be the top picks in this time ipl auction BCCI should require each franchise to have a player from associate country in the roaster. Good for Mathews. Mind you he is a great player in all formats and has performed better in shorter format. He is better than Morgan... RCB should try to get Ben Stokes. RCB would be team to beat. RCB made mistake by keeping 8 overseas player now they can only buy 1 player. They shud av left Milne Shamzi. So that they could av gone for one fast bowler and one all rounder. RCB shud buy one among these 4 players Mathews Boult Rabada Morkel Morgan is not a top attraction. He has failed in IPL a lot more than he has succeeded. Stokes is definitely. no way ishant and Mathews are going to be sold at 2 crore ..they should have base price of 50 lakhs.. @keepcalmandslaptheumpire: It might be reflecting on new picks, Shakib is already part of KKR isn't it ? 799 players are the ones who weren't picked yet or probably left by the earlier franchises. Angelo Mathews must be day dreaming to list himself at the highest base price. Given the spate of injuries he suffered in recent past and becoming injury prone in general, I am expecting him to be unsold. What about Mustafizur for SRH? Is he allowed to play or this applicable only for bangaldeshi players are not part of any IPL team. They have only priced themselves at 2 crore rupees as they would find better things to do with their time if they dont get paid top bucks. Also they arnt that good - Stokes fails miserably five times out of every six with the bat, and with the orb is rarely trusted to bowl the full four. Woakes is a swing bowler, the only thing in even less demand than swing bowlers in the IPL is wicketkeepers. @KEEPCALMANDSLAPTHEUMPIRE: Shakib and Mustafizur have already been retained by KKR and SRH respectively.. How are any of those players barring Mathews listing themselves at a base price of 298,000 U.S dollars? Woakes is arguably the best and his base price should be at least half of that. Stokes is so hit and miss not to mention dreadful at playing spin and Morgan has done nothing in 5 or 6 seasons of IPL. I would pick up Mathews though provided he's fit and bowling as his bowling is probably better than his team mate Thisara Perera who usually gets picked and he has more changeups than Stokes. Also you mentioned there is no Bangladesh players does this mean there is no Shakib this time round? No featured comments at the moment. How are any of those players barring Mathews listing themselves at a base price of 298,000 U.S dollars? Woakes is arguably the best and his base price should be at least half of that. Stokes is so hit and miss not to mention dreadful at playing spin and Morgan has done nothing in 5 or 6 seasons of IPL. I would pick up Mathews though provided he's fit and bowling as his bowling is probably better than his team mate Thisara Perera who usually gets picked and he has more changeups than Stokes. Also you mentioned there is no Bangladesh players does this mean there is no Shakib this time round? @KEEPCALMANDSLAPTHEUMPIRE: Shakib and Mustafizur have already been retained by KKR and SRH respectively.. They have only priced themselves at 2 crore rupees as they would find better things to do with their time if they dont get paid top bucks. Also they arnt that good - Stokes fails miserably five times out of every six with the bat, and with the orb is rarely trusted to bowl the full four. Woakes is a swing bowler, the only thing in even less demand than swing bowlers in the IPL is wicketkeepers. What about Mustafizur for SRH? Is he allowed to play or this applicable only for bangaldeshi players are not part of any IPL team. Angelo Mathews must be day dreaming to list himself at the highest base price. Given the spate of injuries he suffered in recent past and becoming injury prone in general, I am expecting him to be unsold. @keepcalmandslaptheumpire: It might be reflecting on new picks, Shakib is already part of KKR isn't it ? 799 players are the ones who weren't picked yet or probably left by the earlier franchises. no way ishant and Mathews are going to be sold at 2 crore ..they should have base price of 50 lakhs.. Morgan is not a top attraction. He has failed in IPL a lot more than he has succeeded. Stokes is definitely. RCB made mistake by keeping 8 overseas player now they can only buy 1 player. They shud av left Milne Shamzi. So that they could av gone for one fast bowler and one all rounder. RCB shud buy one among these 4 players Mathews Boult Rabada Morkel RCB should try to get Ben Stokes. RCB would be team to beat.