Play 03:33 'Jadeja, Ashwin proven match winners' - Kumble India coach Anil Kumble has hinted that Karun Nair 's triple-hundred in India's last Test might not earn him an automatic spot in the XI for the one-off Test against Bangladesh on Thursday. Kumble said while the performance was a huge boost to the overall make-up of the side, they have not forgotten what Ajinkya Rahane - whom Nair had replaced - has done for the team. As things stand, if India stick to their combination of five bowlers, only one of them will play. A finger injury had ruled out Rahane from the last two Tests against England, paving the way for Nair to get an extended run in the middle-order. His 303 not out in Chennai showed India's batting riches went very deep, but if he makes way for Rahane, he will perhaps become one of a very few men who miss their next Test after scoring a triple-ton. In April 1930, England's Andy Sandham made 325 in the timeless Test against West Indies and did not play again, although that may have been because he was 39 years old then. "We still haven't thought about the combination but it is nice that Karun took his opportunity and did what he did in Chennai," Kumble said. "It is fantastic for a young cricketer to come in and score a triple-hundred. But we know what Ajinkya has done for this team. Ajinkya's performances have been phenomenal across conditions. It is nice that somebody who came in to replace Ajinkya because of the injury in Mumbai, took three or four innings and was able to score a three-hundred. It's nice to have to have that kind of contribution and that kind of ability from the youngsters." Kumble lent his support to M Vijay and KL Rahul to keep opening the batting, and said Abhinav Mukund has been selected as back-up. Vijay and Rahul have been the most used pair at the top of the order for India in the last 12 months, but they have only put together a single 50-plus stand during this period. "I don't think the opening slot is a concern at all. Vijay and Rahul have played wonderfully well in the last series. It's just that you need a back-up. As far as we are concerned, openers have had [injury] issues, in the West Indies and in the home series as well. It's just a concern. "Abhinav brings in not just the experience of playing at the international level but also lots of runs in the domestic season gone by. So he is in good form. And it's a reward for what he has been able to achieve in the domestic circuit," he said. Kumble said he was also keen on keeping Hardik Pandya in consideration given his combination of bowling at a fair clip and his aggressive batting in the middle-order. Pandya returned from injury against England in last month's ODI series and Kumble said his skills will be handy when they play abroad. "We certainly want to keep Hardik in the mix," Kumble said. "He is someone who has the ability to become a good allrounder even in the longer format. It's rare that you have someone who can run in and bowl at close to 140 kph and bat in the middle order. "He hasn't been tested in the longer format. But we believe that if he is part of this mix. Whenever the opportunity comes, we will try him out. In the future, whenever we travel outside India, he will be someone we will probably look at." Mohammad Isam is ESPNcricinfo's Bangladesh correspondent. @isam84 Can't help but feel for Karun Nair, as he was a replacement for one of the best test batsmen in India. Good thing is his age is by his side and he will plenty of opportunities. @Sanjay well said... But unfortunately our team management does think in that way... They will drop Nair now and spoil his confidence... Same they done to Nair by not selecting for ODI/T20..... Same thing done to Manish after scoring match winning hundred in Australia... His place has been rotated like anything and spoiled his confidence Kumble's thinking looks good, Karun Nair scoring triple century doesnt mean that he must be automatically selected for next test. Yes, he played a class innings which ensured India won by an innings even after England scoring massive 477 in their first innings. But after his triple knock he failed to score a decent run in 4 first class innings and 3 domestic T20s. He can definitely bounce back anyway. Rahane in the other hand, is a proven class player and must be included in the Test against Bangladesh to regain some form. Regarding Pandiya, I think he must continue playing ODI and T20 for now as his records seems substantially low in First Class level. We dont need aggressive batsman for test unless ofcourse looking for run a ball chase! All the best to team India! @KESHAVBANG - If you give it a chance to look logically, you would not find any politics in what kumble stated. Why do you bring rohit in the mix when not required? Rohit was only included when they decided to play with 4 bowlers otherwise he was left out. There isn't any instance when he was selected over a bowler. You might argue that he has been selected over a batsmen but never over a bowler. But i would want Nair to have a run in this match and give Rahane some more time to have rest. its only a series against BD and we dont want our specialists to be in any stress. Giving Nair a chance would strengthen the bench strength for india and rahane would be much fitter when Aus comes to sub continent. Rahane has been most consistent test batsman of in past 2 years.He failed only against england in home conditions .You can't drop him. Rahene has not played any match winning inning in his entire career in any format of the game in international level. He may have done well in IPLs but he is not a match winner player at International level. He has poor strike rate in ODIs and T20s and lack of consistency in tests. He always fails in pressure situation. India looses most of the matches he plays. We have got a talented star Karun Nair and need to groom him by giving more matches and keep Match Looser like Rahane. KESHAVBANG: I watched the entire test match in which Karun Nair scored a triple hundred..He was dropped thrice .. poking at deliveries and he was very lucky to get to a 3 figure mark..let alone a 300.. it was also the last game of the series and England were all but defeated .. all said and done it was a fantastic knock and he will get his turn.. but Kumble is absolutely right in backing Rahane.. If one good innings can make you an automatic select then Rahane has surely done enough in all the away tours to earn himself a couple of matches.. Nair is a man in form, and he will make way for a guy who's been scratchy in the recent past. If ever there was anything which beats logic, this is it. I may not have played cricket at a higher level, but you always pick guys based on form, rather than past laurels. We, Indians, tend to be too sentimental with selection issues, whereas a less conservative approach might serve us better. The long season of the home internationals will be over, soon. We will have to start overseas tours. And, both Rahane Hardik have the stuff in them suitable for the non-subcontinental conditions, irrespective of their domestic performances. They are going to be our gun players on tours. So, have to keep the powder dry. Some way or the other. Rahane was going through a bad spell in his batting at the start of the series with England in a way it was a blessing he got injured mid-series as it paved the way for Karun Nair's epic triple hundred knock. However we need Rahane back in the team hopefully back in form too - particularly with his impressive record on pacy wickets outside the subcontinent. With both Ashwin Jayant Yadav being adept batsmen, there is no need to play an extra front line batsman so Karun Nair will have to miss out in playing in this Test. However young Kuldeep Yadav could replace his namesake Jayant to add a bit more variety in the spin bowling without weakening the batting much at all. Can't help but feel for Karun Nair, as he was a replacement for one of the best test batsmen in India. Good thing is his age is by his side and he will plenty of opportunities. @Sanjay well said... But unfortunately our team management does think in that way... They will drop Nair now and spoil his confidence... Same they done to Nair by not selecting for ODI/T20..... Same thing done to Manish after scoring match winning hundred in Australia... His place has been rotated like anything and spoiled his confidence Kumble's thinking looks good, Karun Nair scoring triple century doesnt mean that he must be automatically selected for next test. Yes, he played a class innings which ensured India won by an innings even after England scoring massive 477 in their first innings. But after his triple knock he failed to score a decent run in 4 first class innings and 3 domestic T20s. He can definitely bounce back anyway. Rahane in the other hand, is a proven class player and must be included in the Test against Bangladesh to regain some form. Regarding Pandiya, I think he must continue playing ODI and T20 for now as his records seems substantially low in First Class level. We dont need aggressive batsman for test unless ofcourse looking for run a ball chase! All the best to team India! @KESHAVBANG - If you give it a chance to look logically, you would not find any politics in what kumble stated. Why do you bring rohit in the mix when not required? Rohit was only included when they decided to play with 4 bowlers otherwise he was left out. There isn't any instance when he was selected over a bowler. You might argue that he has been selected over a batsmen but never over a bowler. But i would want Nair to have a run in this match and give Rahane some more time to have rest. its only a series against BD and we dont want our specialists to be in any stress. Giving Nair a chance would strengthen the bench strength for india and rahane would be much fitter when Aus comes to sub continent. Rahane has been most consistent test batsman of in past 2 years.He failed only against england in home conditions .You can't drop him. Rahene has not played any match winning inning in his entire career in any format of the game in international level. He may have done well in IPLs but he is not a match winner player at International level. He has poor strike rate in ODIs and T20s and lack of consistency in tests. He always fails in pressure situation. India looses most of the matches he plays. We have got a talented star Karun Nair and need to groom him by giving more matches and keep Match Looser like Rahane. KESHAVBANG: I watched the entire test match in which Karun Nair scored a triple hundred..He was dropped thrice .. poking at deliveries and he was very lucky to get to a 3 figure mark..let alone a 300.. it was also the last game of the series and England were all but defeated .. all said and done it was a fantastic knock and he will get his turn.. but Kumble is absolutely right in backing Rahane.. If one good innings can make you an automatic select then Rahane has surely done enough in all the away tours to earn himself a couple of matches.. Nair is a man in form, and he will make way for a guy who's been scratchy in the recent past. If ever there was anything which beats logic, this is it. I may not have played cricket at a higher level, but you always pick guys based on form, rather than past laurels. We, Indians, tend to be too sentimental with selection issues, whereas a less conservative approach might serve us better. The long season of the home internationals will be over, soon. We will have to start overseas tours. And, both Rahane Hardik have the stuff in them suitable for the non-subcontinental conditions, irrespective of their domestic performances. They are going to be our gun players on tours. So, have to keep the powder dry. Some way or the other. Rahane was going through a bad spell in his batting at the start of the series with England in a way it was a blessing he got injured mid-series as it paved the way for Karun Nair's epic triple hundred knock. However we need Rahane back in the team hopefully back in form too - particularly with his impressive record on pacy wickets outside the subcontinent. With both Ashwin Jayant Yadav being adept batsmen, there is no need to play an extra front line batsman so Karun Nair will have to miss out in playing in this Test. However young Kuldeep Yadav could replace his namesake Jayant to add a bit more variety in the spin bowling without weakening the batting much at all. rahane is a terrific test batsman. preserve him for test matches only. but don't let him play in the shorter formats for his own good. at the moment it looks like he is struggling to maintain the balance among all 3 formats. Can not understand logic.... That too by Kumble...... If Rohit fit they would have played SIX batsman and not now... Why you are doing all these partiality against well deserved Karun Nair..... Build the team with talent and not by politics.... Karun nair should be given one more chance and what's better scenerio than playing against bangladesh. You cannot simply take a guy off the team after scoring a 300, its not fair and it will demoralize all the club level players, they might think no matter how good you perform you have to wait until one in this fixed 11 fail miserably at least 20-30 tests before they given a chance. Give him a chance and let him prove if he is consistent or not, no player should simply walk into the team after an injury, he should wait. Rahane haters kindly check his test match as well Limited match records, he is consistently performing well in all formats. He his one of the best batsmen in the Indian team. Indian coach correctly spoken. Rahane might have done well in the distant past. But he has been struggling for form recently and he should be dropped. He should go back to FC cricket and get back to form. He could then come back into test cricket. I think India should play 6 batsmen and 4 bowlers, a combination India used throughout the New Zealand series a few months ago and WON ALL TEST matches. Even if they play 6 batsmen, India should drop Rahane and bring in an youngster like Pant, Iyer, Kishan or someone else and Karun Nair must play. Kumble will be playing for the gallery if he drops Nair. These comments from Kimble didn't came when Vijay was fit to take his opening spot, but still Rahul was given the chance.. Rahane is a beast in the the longer version , Wasn't too long ago that he was averaging 50 across 29-30 matches which is phenomenal . I'd be disappointed if he doesn't moon walk back into the side and take his rightful spot . Karun Nair can wait a few more games. Rahane has highest test average in current Indian team among those who had played at least ten tests. And he has proved his versatility around the world in different playing conditions. Yes karunair surely deserves place in team. But not at the cost of rahane whatsoever. Rahane is a much better player of fast bowling which will be the main threat against Australia. Although he sometimes may struggle against average spinners like Ansari. Vijay, Rahul, Pujara, Kohli, Rahane , Ashwin, Saha, Jaddu, Kuldeep, Umesh, Ishanth india need to realize certain players are just not going to succeed at the test level. pandya is one of those players who should stick to limited overs. he does not have the technique to succeed as a batsman and his bowling record is average at best in first class. if he cant do it against domestic players, how on earth can you expect him to do well in australia or england? on the other hand, i wouldnt mind seeing bumrah get a spot in the test team, as he has a pretty good first class record and has been bowling well lately for the most part. definitely would be better than 73 test 37 average ishant sharma. Tricky decision! I would stick with Karun Nair simply because Rahane has looked woefully short on form and confidence recently. And as a result of his injury he has played little or no long format cricket since then. He surely has a key role to play in the future but maybe for this one match is better to just go with the in form guy. I think both these guys should fight it out against Bangladesh. Provide rest to one of the pro players for Oz tour No featured comments at the moment. I think both these guys should fight it out against Bangladesh. Provide rest to one of the pro players for Oz tour Tricky decision! I would stick with Karun Nair simply because Rahane has looked woefully short on form and confidence recently. And as a result of his injury he has played little or no long format cricket since then. He surely has a key role to play in the future but maybe for this one match is better to just go with the in form guy. india need to realize certain players are just not going to succeed at the test level. pandya is one of those players who should stick to limited overs. he does not have the technique to succeed as a batsman and his bowling record is average at best in first class. if he cant do it against domestic players, how on earth can you expect him to do well in australia or england? on the other hand, i wouldnt mind seeing bumrah get a spot in the test team, as he has a pretty good first class record and has been bowling well lately for the most part. definitely would be better than 73 test 37 average ishant sharma. Vijay, Rahul, Pujara, Kohli, Rahane , Ashwin, Saha, Jaddu, Kuldeep, Umesh, Ishanth Rahane is a much better player of fast bowling which will be the main threat against Australia. Although he sometimes may struggle against average spinners like Ansari. Rahane has highest test average in current Indian team among those who had played at least ten tests. And he has proved his versatility around the world in different playing conditions. Yes karunair surely deserves place in team. But not at the cost of rahane whatsoever. Rahane is a beast in the the longer version , Wasn't too long ago that he was averaging 50 across 29-30 matches which is phenomenal . I'd be disappointed if he doesn't moon walk back into the side and take his rightful spot . Karun Nair can wait a few more games. These comments from Kimble didn't came when Vijay was fit to take his opening spot, but still Rahul was given the chance.. Rahane might have done well in the distant past. But he has been struggling for form recently and he should be dropped. He should go back to FC cricket and get back to form. He could then come back into test cricket. I think India should play 6 batsmen and 4 bowlers, a combination India used throughout the New Zealand series a few months ago and WON ALL TEST matches. Even if they play 6 batsmen, India should drop Rahane and bring in an youngster like Pant, Iyer, Kishan or someone else and Karun Nair must play. Kumble will be playing for the gallery if he drops Nair. Rahane haters kindly check his test match as well Limited match records, he is consistently performing well in all formats. He his one of the best batsmen in the Indian team. Indian coach correctly spoken.