Statistical Information provided by STATS © 2017 Fox Sports Interactive Media, LLC. All rights reserved. Use of this website (including any and all parts and components) constitutes your acceptance of these New Terms of Use and New Privacy Policy . The New England Patriots completed the most improbable comeback in Super Bowl history to stun the Falcons, but according to Shannon Sharpe, Atlanta s puzzling playcalling was as big a reason for the outcome as Tom Brady s heroics.  On Monday s episode of Undisputed , Sharpe broke down the key decisions that led to the Falcons historic collapse.  I believe two things can be true. The Patriots absolutely won this game. But you and I both know, the Falcons choked. There’s no way of getting around that. Skip, I don’t know if you know this - when the Falcons got up 28-3, they ran the ball four times from that point on. Think about that. You’re up 28-3 and you have four rush attempts from that point on. Even if you just run the ball every single down and punt the ball away I don’t believe the [Patriots] can catch you. USA TODAY Sports Eric Seals-USA TODAY Sports "I’m thinking to myself ‘Kyle [Shanahan], what are you doing? You have a job secure. You don’t have to prove anything. You got a six-year deal that’s guaranteed. You showing how great of an offensive coordinator you are is not gonna change anything.’ It’s not like you can get an eight-year deal now. So there is nothing for you to prove." Bob Donnan Bob Donnan-USA TODAY Sports "The Falcons had so many opportunities to put this game away. Coming out of the half, they got the ball. They didn’t do anything, they punted the football away. OK, now they get the ball back, they go up 28-3. The Patriots get an opportunity, they score a touchdown. [Stephen] Gostkowski clangs it off the [upright]. They onside kick. I wouldn’t have onsided, and I was thinking to myself ‘why would coach Belichick onside’ when he hadn’t been able to really stop the Falcons up until this point. They get this ball, they’re on a really short field. I’m thinking ‘you get this ball, two first downs and you’re going to be attempting an under-40-yard field goal. So not only do you get the ball, you get an extra five yards because Gostkowski touched the football before it went the 10 yards." USA TODAY Sports Robert Deutsch-USA TODAY Sports "The strip sack. Coach Belichick says, ‘OK, do your job.’ Situational football. I want you to understand, Dont’a Hightower is a middle linebacker. He’s the mike linebacker. When he lines up on the edge, what do you think he’s going to do? He’s going to blitz! Devonta Freeman, that’s your guy! You know what he was thinking? ‘Get out to the pass route.’ That’s your guy. They offset you to make sure you can see him. He’s standing right there. All you have to do is hit him in his chest. If he runs over you, it’s going to take him too much time to get to Matt Ryan. You whiff? Ball out. … This is the mike linebacker. He normally lines up in the middle of the field. Why is he here? Maybe he’s going to wish me a happy birthday. Maybe he’s going to ask me how my family’s doing? No, he’s coming to hit your quarterback in the mouth! Do your job." Bob Donnan Bob Donnan-USA TODAY Sports "With five minutes left in the game, Matt Ryan’s running a play with 20 seconds on the clock. Does he realize that the clock is his ally, not his foe? Why would you run a play with 20 seconds on the clock? You should not be snapping the ball with over five seconds on the clock. Five seconds, snap the ball. Why are you being so aggressive? If you look at the way they called this game once they got up 28-3, it was almost like they were down 28-3. They’re still in hurry-up." "How about this. You get the ball, you get the big play from Devonta Freeman - Matt Ryan dumps the ball to Freeman, picks up 39 yards. Then you run the circus route by Julio [Jones]. It’s first-and-10 at the 22. You run the ball three times, you kick a field goal, you’re up two scores with under four minutes to play in the ball game. And [they] did what? I don’t get it. What were you trying to accomplish, Kyle Shanahan? First of all, why would you not run the ball more when you’re up 28-3? Why would you not run the ball in that situation? Why would you put the ball in the air?" USA TODAY Sports Robert Deutsch-USA TODAY Sports "I get Matt Ryan is the MVP. You don’t have to validate him. He’s already been validated the night before at the NFL Honors. The writers voted him MVP. You don’t need to validate him by letting him throw the football in this situation. OK, negative play. You get the sack first. Even though Kyle Shanahan called this play - Matt Ryan, you’re nine years into the league. You’re an MVP, you know you can’t take a sack. So you go from first-and-10 on the 22 to sack, holding, punting the football. You had the ball on the 22-yard line and you’re punting from your own 45, so you lose 23 yards in two plays." USA TODAY Sports Eric Seals-USA TODAY Sports "Dan Quinn, I tweeted this in the ball game. I said ‘he’s doing the same thing when he was the defensive coordinator at Seattle, he’s doing that again in Atlanta.’ His head is hard. You hear Richard Sherman in the guys ‘well we don’t flip-flop, we play our defense.’ He’s saying ‘well this is what we do.’ They’re a Cover-1, safety in the middle of the field. I’ll bet you out of the snaps they played, I’ll bet you 95 percent of those snaps was Cover-1 Robber or 22 Man. How many times do you think Tom Brady needs to take a test when he knows the answers before he can ace it? If you line up in a formation, even the [most] basic of quarterbacks can pick you apart. And that’s all they were doing…. Tom Brady was saying ‘you know what I can do?’ Josh McDaniels said ‘you know what I can do? I can run Edelman on the shallow cross, and I can get one-on-one back side. Either with [James] White, with my running back working on the safety or linebacker, or I can get [Danny] Amendola, [Malcom] Mitchell, or I can get Chris Hogan one-on-one with no interference. …. I just don’t get coach Quinn, why would you play the same defense when it cost you?" Bob Donnan Bob Donnan-USA TODAY Sports