Desktop notifications are on | Turn off Get breaking news alerts from The Washington Post Turn on desktop notifications? It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your browser permissions to allow them. The inside track on Washington politics. *Invalid email address The inside track on Washington politics. *Invalid email address It was a jaw-dropping start to the Super Bowl halftime show: There was Lady Gaga, crooning “God Bless America” and Woody Guthrie’s “This Land Is Your Land” on the roof of Houston’s NRG Stadium, framed by a fleet of illuminated drones swirling in the sky behind her. Then Gaga stepped to the edge of the roof, flung her arms open and leapt into the open air above the field. The Internet promptly went bonkers: Twitter was flooded with all-caps expletives and awe. Headlines gushed over the stunt.  She literally just jumped off the roof, said basically everybody. Wait, Lady Gaga seriously jumped from the roof pic.twitter.com/Io5SxY4l0i — SI Extra Mustard (@SI_ExtraMustard) February 6, 2017 Except she didn’t seriously jump from the roof — at least, not live at the Super Bowl (as some quickly pointed out, it seemed a bit suspicious that the camera cut away abruptly as soon as she fell out of view). The intro to Gaga’s performance was actually taped several days in advance, officials with Intel Drones confirmed to The Washington Post. The creative teams behind the dazzling display wanted to avoid any potential weather problems — not to mention that having a pop star plummet safely from the roof to the field poses some significant challenges. “From a logistics and creative perspective, it’s a bit hard for her to go from the roof all the way down to the floor of the stadium,” Natalie Cheung, general manager for Intel Drones, told USA Today . [ Lady Gaga calls herself a rebel, but at the Super Bowl she played it safe ] For those sitting in the stadium, the first moments of Gaga’s performance were played on massive screens. When taped-Gaga jumped from the roof, real life-Gaga suddenly appeared in a spotlight, suspended below the ceiling rafters, dancing and flipping as she descended toward a glittering tower. Lady Gaga entering from the roof of the NRG Stadium for her #SuperBowl #PepsiHalftime performance pic.twitter.com/2L2Eyljb58 — Lady Gaga (@ryanleejohnson) February 6, 2017 But even for those sitting in the stadium, it wasn’t immediately clear that the stunt had been pre-recorded, said Mary Engelbrechtsen, a child care consultant from New Jersey who attended the game with her husband and his coworkers. Before Gaga’s performance began, the dome above the field was opened slightly, Engelbrechtsen said. “She came into the arena on a harness, but you honestly could not tell where she came from,” she said. “I was with a group of 15 and none of us were quite sure where she actually came from.” For days before the game, Gaga’s fans were thrilled by rumors that the pop icon would perform on the stadium roof. On a Boston radio show last week, Gaga sidestepped details about her upcoming show, but confirmed that her younger sister had suggested the daring stunt. “My sister was like, I know, let’s suspend you in the air!” Gaga said . [ Lady Gaga avoids politics at Super Bowl halftime show, flies off roof of stadium ] Her live show did involve plenty of impressive midair acrobatics, even if the roof-dive was something of an illusion. “This performance is for everyone,” Gaga said several days before the show, according to People . “I want to more than anything to create a moment that people will never forget.” That much seems certain: Taped or not, her memorable plunge has already been immortalized as a meme. lifestyle style-blog true Please provide a valid email address. SuperFan Badge SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams. More about badges | Request a badge Culture Connoisseur Badge Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment. More about badges | Request a badge Fact Checker Badge Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker . More about badges | Request a badge Washingtologist Badge Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area. More about badges | Request a badge Post Writer Badge This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer. Post Forum Badge Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs. More about badges | Request a badge Weather Watcher Badge Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on climates and forecasts. More about badges | Request a badge World Watcher Badge World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs. More about badges | Request a badge Post Contributor Badge This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are sources or experts quoted in a story. More about badges | Request a badge Post Recommended Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post. You must be logged in to report a comment. You must be logged in to recommend a comment. Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments , as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers. All comments are posted in the All Comments tab. To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in. lifestyle style-blog Success! Check your inbox for details. Please enter a valid email address You might also like: See all newsletters Play right from this page