Should you join him? Don't make snap decisions Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! Here are four stocks with buy ranks and strong growth characteristics for investors to consider today, February 8th: Alcoa Corporation (AA): This global industry leader in bauxite, alumina and aluminum products, which carries a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy), has witnessed the Zacks Consensus Estimate for its current year earnings increasing more than 100% over the last 60 days. Alcoa Corp. Price and Consensus Alcoa Corp. Price and Consensus | Alcoa Corp. Quote Alcoa has a PEG ratio of 0.14, compared with 29.13 for the industry. The company possesses a  Growth Score  of B. Bluerock Residential Growth REIT, Inc. (BRG): This real estate investment trust, which carries a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy), has witnessed the Zacks Consensus Estimate for its current year earnings advancing 20.6% over the last 60 days. Bluerock Residential Growth REIT, Inc. Price and Consensus Bluerock Residential Growth REIT, Inc. Price and Consensus | Bluerock Residential Growth REIT, Inc. Quote Bluerock Residential Growth REIT has a PEG ratio of 1.12, compared with 2.29 for the industry. The company possesses a Growth Score of B. Bluerock Residential Growth REIT, Inc. PEG Ratio (TTM) Bluerock Residential Growth REIT, Inc. PEG Ratio (TTM) | Bluerock Residential Growth REIT, Inc. Quote Entegris, Inc. (ENTG): This leading provider of materials management solutions to the microelectronics industry, which carries a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy), has witnessed the Zacks Consensus Estimate for its current year earnings increasing 3% over the last 60 days. Entegris, Inc. Price and Consensus Entegris, Inc. Price and Consensus | Entegris, Inc. Quote Entegris has a PEG ratio of 1.92, compared with 2.12 for the industry. The company possesses a Growth Score of A. Entegris, Inc. PEG Ratio (TTM) Entegris, Inc. PEG Ratio (TTM) | Entegris, Inc. Quote Tenaris S.A. (TS): This leading manufacturer and supplier of seamless steel pipe products, which carries a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy), has witnessed the Zacks Consensus Estimate for its current year earnings rising 20% over the last 60 days. Tenaris S.A. Price and Consensus Tenaris S.A. Price and Consensus | Tenaris S.A. Quote Tenaris has a PEG ratio of 6.78, compared with 11.82 for the industry. The company possesses a Growth Score of B. Tenaris S.A. PEG Ratio (TTM) Tenaris S.A. PEG Ratio (TTM) | Tenaris S.A. Quote See the  full list of top ranked stocks here Learn more about the  Growth score and how it is calculated here Want to see all of today's Zacks Strong Buys? Today's 5 additions are just the appetizer. You are welcome to download the full, up-to-the-minute list of 220 Zacks Rank #1 stocks free of charge. There is no better place to start your own stock search. Plus you can also access the full list of must-avoid Zacks Strong Sells and other private research. See the stocks free The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.