Published: Feb 14, 2017 5:52 p.m. ET By Paul Singer's Elliott Management disclosed new stakes in Dell Technologies, and Alcoa Corp. in the fourth quarter, according to a Tuesday regulatory filing. Between the third and fourth quarters, Singer's fund acquired 7.1 million shares of Dell DVMT, +0.00% worth $392 million. That paired with the purchase of Dell call options, which confer an owner the right but not the obligation to buy shares at a set price, representing 2.8 million shares or $154 million, according to file-tracking firm WhaleWisdom.com. The fund picked up 10.2 million shares of Alcoa AA, -3.72% worth $287 million, and 3 million shares of Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp. CTSH, -0.05% valued at $168 million, as of Dec. 31. Meanwhile, Elliott reduced call options tied to biopharmaceutical company Allergan AGN, -0.96% cutting those holdings by the equivalent of 1.1 million shares, or $210 million, as of Dec. 31. It made no change to its direct exposure to Allergan's stock, retaining a 2.7 million shares worth about $574 million. Large investors are required to reveal their long equity holdings at the end of each quarter in public filings. Copyright 2017 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved. By using this site you agree to the Terms of Service , Privacy Policy , and Cookie Policy . Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use . Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data delayed per exchange requirements. S P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones Company, Inc. All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.