Need to register? Current subscribers register here . U.S. Steel ( X ) is breaking out to a two-year high as steelmakers and aluminum producers such as Alcoa ( AA ) rally Monday on a report that China is considering sweeping production cuts to combat smog. With Beijing and many cities in the Northeast suffering their worst winter smog conditions in years, the Chinese government is mulling deeper cuts in steel and aluminum output, Reuters reported , citing a draft policy document. The document would slash steel and fertilizer capacity by at least half and aluminum capacity by at 30% or more in 28 cities from late November to late February. U.S. Steel leapt 5.7% to 39.73 on the stock market today , clearing a 39.24 buy point in a cup base. The stock hit 40.39 intraday, the highest since October 2014. U.S. Steel rebounded from its 50-day line last week. The stock surged for a month after Donald Trump's election, with investors betting on infrastructure spending, protectionism and corporate tax cuts all benefiting the sector. Nucor ( NUE ) rose 4.25%, regaining its 50-day line after rallying to just below that support level last week. AK Steel ( AKS ) climbed 4.4%. Morgan Stanley upgraded Nucor to overweight from equal weight, while downgrading AK Steel to equal weight from overweight. IBD'S TAKE: Mining stocks are the top rated group of the 197 industries that IBD tracks. See why Vale, Rio Tinto and other mining stocks are soaring today . Steel Dynamics ( STLD ) advanced 3.1% to 37.71. Steel Dynamics retook its 50-day late last week and has a potential buy point of 40.27. Meanwhile, Alcoa climbed 0.5% after setting a new high intraday. The raw aluminum miner's value-added spinoff, Arconic ( ARNC ), edged up 0.1% after surging in recent days as activists seek to oust its CEO. RELATED: Vale, Rio Tinto Lead Mining Rally As Iron Ore Prices Won't 'Fall Off A Cliff' U.S. Steel Leads Sector Advance As Trump Vows 'Phenomenal' Tax News Steel stocks continue to rise, as analysts project sharp earnings rebounds across the sector this year. (iurii/Shutterstock) 2/15/2017 A rising tide lifts all boats, the old saying goes. For the steel and metal industries, that means a lot... 2/15/2017 A rising tide lifts all boats, the old saying goes.... In addition to the unveiling of Boeing's 787-10, Trump's appearance at the company's South Carolina plant Friday is expected to include an announcement on the Export-Import Bank. (Boeing) The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association recommends that bond markets shutter on Monday as well. (AP) FANG CEOs Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, Reed Hastings and Larry Page. (AP) Get the latest news, stock quotes and analysis of FANG stocks Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google-parent Alphabet. Get 4 free weeks of the IBD Digital edition plus access to IBD s exclusive market analysis, proprietary stock ratings and interactive tools. Stay on top of the market with IBD s exclusive videos. You will find the latest news, market analysis, and education to help you become a more successful investor. Get the most out of IBD s products and features by learning the CAN SLIM Investing System and staying in sync with the market trend. Notice: Information contained herein is not and should not be construed as an offer, solicitation, or recommendation to buy or sell securities. The information has been obtained from sources we believe to be reliable; however no guarantee is made or implied with respect to its accuracy, timeliness, or completeness. Authors may own the stocks they discuss. The information and content are subject to change without notice. *Real-time prices by Bats®. Volume delayed. Real-time quote and/or trade prices are not sourced from all markets. © 2000-2017 Investor's Business Daily, Inc. All rights reserved