{{contrib_block.display_author.name}} Voice Jay Somaney , {{contrib_block.display_author.type}} Contributor {{contrib_block.display_author.type}} Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile '"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Photo by Tomohiro Ohsumi/Getty Images Apple remains the most maligned stock in the world despite the company's outstanding results from a couple of weeks ago. Almost daily, one will hear about how Apple has peaked and how investors holding on to their shares or even worse (gasp!) buying at current levels are losers and instead should be listening to the naysayers well-intentioned thesis accompanied usually by their standard sweaty-palmed hand-wringing. However, I have been saying it for over 4-5 months now that Apple is just once again kicking things up a notch. A few hours ago, Economic Times broke the news that Apple will fire up its huge plans for India by beginning to assemble the iPhone SE along with contract manufacturer and Apple partner, Wistron, in Bangalore (Bengaluru). The initial plans call for Wistron assembling between 300,000-400,000 iPhone SE units at the plant, while Apple waits on the Indian government to approve its requests for tax concessions required to start manufacturing and not just assembly of iPhones in India. “It is Apple’s first such venture in India… The demands they have made are for the larger plans of the company to really scale up manufacturing in India,” a senior government official told Economic Times. Apparently Wistron is set to begin assembly of the iPhone SE immediately and that the tax concessions requested by Apple from the government are not connected to this initial roll-out. There are approximately 700-800 million users of mobile phones in India and Apple managed to sell a mere 2 million units last year thanks to its typical starting price tag of INR 50,000 plus prior to the introduction of the SE in 2016. In India, 75% or so, of the units sold are at a price point of below INR 10,000. Apple's iPhone SE currently is selling in India for around INR-25,000 to INR 30,000 but was introduced at a base price of INR 39,000 in early 2016.