Quotes Info Enter Symbol(s): e.g.
YHOO, ^DJI Symbol
Lookup | Financial
Search ADBE SEC
Filings for
ADBE Form
8-K on
27-Jan-2017 All
Recent SEC Filings Show all filings for ADOBE SYSTEMS INC Form
8-K for
ADOBE SYSTEMS INC 27-Jan-2017 Change in Directors or Principal Officers, Financial Statements and Exhibits Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers. (b) Departure of Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer
On January 27, 2017, Richard Rowley retired from his position as the Corporate
Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Adobe Systems Incorporated ( Adobe or the Company ) following ten years of service. His decision to retire was
previously announced in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 7, 2016.
Mark Garrett, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Adobe,
will serve as the interim principal accounting officer while Adobe completes its
search for Mr. Rowley's replacement. (e) 2017 Performance Share Program
On January 24, 2017, the Executive Compensation Committee (the Committee ) of
the Board of Directors (the Board ) of the Company approved the 2017
Performance Share Program, including the Award Calculation Methodology (the Program ), under the terms of the Company's 2003 Equity Incentive Plan. The
Committee established the Program to help focus key employees on building
stockholder value, provide significant award potential for achieving outstanding
Company performance, and enhance the ability of the Company to attract and
retain highly talented individuals. Members of the Company's executive
management team and other key members of senior management were selected by the
Committee to participate in the Program for fiscal year 2017. The Committee
granted awards to the executive officers under the Program on January 24, 2017
in the form of a target award and a maximum award of performance shares
( Performance Shares ), approved pursuant to the terms of the Company's 2003
Equity Incentive Plan. Under the Program, shares may be earned based on the achievement of objective
relative total stockholder return ( TSR ) measured over a three-year performance
period (Adobe's 2017 - 2019 fiscal years). The Committee will certify actual
performance achievement following the Company's 2019 fiscal year end and the
corresponding number of Performance Shares earned for the three-year performance
period, subject to specified change of control exceptions. In addition, as a
condition to earning any Performance Shares, a participant must continue to
provide service to Adobe (or an affiliate) through the latter of the
certification date and January 24, 2020. Accordingly, the Performance Shares
will align our executives' interests with those of our stockholders, while
serving as a key retention mechanism over the long term. Each participant can earn between 0% and 200% (the payout cap under the Program)
of his or her target number of Performance Shares. The amount of Performance
Shares actually earned is based on a relative three-year TSR measure, which
objectively compares the TSR of Adobe's common stock against the TSR of the
companies included in the NASDAQ 100 Index as of December 3, 2016 (the first day
of Adobe's 2017 fiscal year) during the course of the three-year period.
Generally, TSR will be compared using the 90-calendar day average ending at the
beginning of Adobe's 2017 fiscal year and ending at the end of Adobe's 2019
fiscal year. The number of Performance Shares awarded will increase or decrease
2.5% for every percentile that Adobe's TSR percentile rank is above or below,
respectively, the NASDAQ 100 companies' 50th percentile, and no shares will be
awarded if the Company's performance ranks below the 25th percentile for the
three-year performance period. Additionally, regardless of Adobe's relative
position with respect to the NASDAQ 100 companies, the award will be capped at
100% of target in the case of Adobe having a negative absolute TSR over the
measurement period. The target awards and maximum awards for the Performance Shares granted to the
Company's principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other
named executive officers* on January 24, 2017 are as set forth below. Target Maximum Officer Title Award Award
Shantanu Narayen President and Chief Executive Officer 84,980 169,960
Mark Garrett Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 25,970 51,940
Abhay Parasnis Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer 23,605 47,210
Bradley Rencher Executive Vice President and General Manager, Digital Marketing 25,970 51,940 Matthew Thompson Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field
Operations 28,330 56,660 * For purposes of this filing, the term named executive officer refers to
executive officers for whom disclosure was required in our most recent filing
with the Securities Exchange Commission under the Securities Act of 1933 or the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that required disclosure pursuant to Item 402(c)
of Regulation S-K. A participant may receive less than his or her target award, and in no event may
actual shares earned exceed the maximum award. Any shares issued under the
Program are subject to recoupment in accordance with the Company's clawback
policies. The description of the Program contained herein is a summary of the material
terms of the Program, does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its
entirety by reference to the Program used in connection with the 2003 Equity
Incentive Plan, which is incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 10.1.
Copies of the 2017 Performance Share Program and the form of Award Grant Notice
and Performance Share Award Agreement for use in connection with grants under
this Program are filed herewith as Exhibits 10.2 and 10.3, respectively, and are
incorporated herein by reference. 2017 Executive Annual Incentive Plan On January 24, 2017, the Committee approved the terms of the 2017 Executive
Annual Incentive Plan (the Incentive Plan ), adopted pursuant to the
stockholder-approved 2016 Cash Performance Bonus Plan (the Master Bonus Plan ).
The Incentive Plan applies to certain executive officers of the Company and is
designed to drive revenue growth, encourage accountability, drive execution of
short-term priorities tied to long-term strategy and annual operating plan
objectives, and recognize and reward the Company's executives upon the
achievement of certain objectives. Executive officers designated by the Company's Board of Directors as an officer
for purposes of Section 16 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, who are Senior Vice President level or above and who are employed by
the Company during its 2017 fiscal year are eligible to participate in the
Incentive Plan. Pursuant to the Incentive Plan, each participant is eligible to
receive an incentive bonus calculated as a percentage of his or her base salary. The Incentive Plan requires that the Company achieve at least 90% of the GAAP
revenue target set forth in the annual operating plan for fiscal year 2017 as
approved by the Board at the beginning of the fiscal year (the FY17 Operating
Plan ) as a minimum performance threshold before participants may earn any
incentive bonus under the Incentive Plan. If the initial threshold is not
achieved, no payments may be made under the Incentive Plan. If this initial
threshold is achieved, each participant is eligible to earn a maximum bonus
equal to 200% of such participant's annual bonus target, up to a maximum of $5
million, subject to reduction as described below. The target bonus is calculated
by multiplying a participant's base salary in effect at the end of the
performance period by a Committee-approved target bonus percentage. For fiscal year 2017, the target bonus and maximum bonus, expressed as a
percentage of base salary for the Company's principal executive officer,
principal financial officer and other named executive officers, would be as
follows: Target Maximum Officer Title Bonus Bonus
Shantanu Narayen President and Chief Executive Officer 150% 300%
Mark Garrett Executive Vice President and Chief Financial 100% 200% Officer
Abhay Parasnis Executive Vice President and Chief Technology 100% 200% Officer
Bradley Rencher Executive Vice President and General Manager, 100% 200% Digital Marketing Matthew Thompson Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field 100% 200%
Operations The maximum bonus for each participant is subject to reduction based on the
Company's or the participant's performance. Fifty percent of a participant's
target award opportunity is tied to the Corporate Performance Result and fifty
percent of a participant's target award opportunity is tied to his or her
Individual Performance Result, each as described below. The actual bonus is comprised of: Corporate Performance Result + Individual Performance Result (50%) (50%) The Corporate Performance Result (expressed as a percentage) is the product
of: (1) Financial Performance and (2) Customer Retention Satisfaction. The Company's financial performance for the Performance Period ( Financial
Performance ) is determined by a metric comprised of both (1) net new annualized
recurring revenue in Digital Media and (2) net bookings for the Adobe Marketing
Cloud ( Bookings ), in both cases as set forth in the FY17 Operating Plan. As described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 2, 2016, we define annualized recurring revenue, or ARR, in our Digital
Media business as the sum of Creative ARR and Document Cloud ARR. We define
Creative ARR as the sum of: (1) the annual value of Creative Cloud subscriptions
and services; plus (2) the annual contract value of Digital Publishing Suite;
plus (3) the annual contract value of Creative Enterprise Term License
Agreements. We define Document Cloud ARR as the sum of (1) the annual value of
Document Cloud subscriptions and services; plus (2) the annual contract value of
Document Cloud Enterprise Term License Agreements. The Bookings target for Adobe Marketing Cloud is also based on the target set
forth in the FY17 Operating Plan. Financial Performance measures net new ARR in our Digital Media business and
Bookings for Adobe Marketing Cloud, both equally weighted, with the actual
percentage of Financial Performance achievement determining the Financial
Performance payout percentage (with a maximum achievement of 200%), as shown on
Exhibit A of the Incentive Plan. The Financial Performance is also subject to
adjustment by the Committee by up to 20 percentage points up or down based on
the Committee's assessment of the Company's qualitative performance during the
fiscal year (with a maximum achievement of 200%).The Financial Performance
payout percentage, after any adjustment as described in the preceding sentence,
will cap the Corporate Performance Result. The Corporate Performance Result may
be adjusted downward based on the outcome of performance relative to Customer
Retention and Satisfaction metrics ( Customer Retention Satisfaction )
established by the Committee in consultation with the Board at the outset of the
fiscal year. The percentage achievement of Customer Retention Satisfaction
(assessed on a scale of 0% to 100%) is multiplied by the Financial Performance
to determine the Corporate Performance Result. The remaining 50% of each participant's bonus opportunity under the Incentive
Plan is based on individual performance including, without limitation,
achievement of individual performance goals selected by the Committee at the
outset of the performance period, which goals are specifically tailored to each
participant and aligned with the achievement of strategic objectives contained
in the FY17 Operating Plan (the Individual Performance Result ). A
participant's Individual Performance Result may range from 0% to 200%. Once each component described above is certified by the Committee, the actual
bonus award earned by each participant under the Incentive Plan is determined
using the following formula: Actual [(Corporate Performance (Individual Performance Target Award = Result % * 50%) + Result % * 50%)] x Award ($) ($) Any amounts paid under the Incentive Plan are subject to recoupment from
participants in accordance with the Company's clawback policies. The description of the Incentive Plan contained herein is a summary of the
material terms of the Incentive Plan, does not purport to be complete, and is
qualified in its entirety by reference to the Incentive Plan and the 2016
Executive Cash Performance Bonus Plan, which is incorporated herein by reference
as Exhibit 10.4. A copy of the Incentive Plan is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.5
and is incorporated herein by reference. Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits. (d) Exhibits Exhibit Incorporated by Reference Filed Number Exhibit Description Form Date Number Herewith 10.1 2003 Equity Incentive Plan, as 8-K 4/14/16 10.1 amended 10.2 2017 Performance Share Program X 10.3 Form of 2017 Performance Share X Award Grant Notice and Award Agreement pursuant to 2017 Performance Share Program 10.4 2016 Executive Cash Performance 8-K 1/29/16 10.4 Bonus Plan 10.5 2017 Executive Annual Incentive Plan X 10.6 Form of RSU Grant Notice and Award Agreement pursuant to 2003 Equity Incentive Plan X Add
ADBE to Portfolio Set Alert Email to a
Friend Get SEC Filings for Another Symbol: Symbol Lookup Quotes Info for
ADBE - All Recent SEC Filings Copyright 2017 Yahoo! Inc.
All rights reserved. Privacy Policy - Terms of Service SEC
Filing data and information provided by EDGAR Online,
Inc.
(1-800-416-6651). All information provided "as is"
for informational purposes
only, not intended for trading purposes or advice.
Neither Yahoo! nor any of
independent providers is liable for any informational
errors, incompleteness,
or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on
information contained
herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not
to redistribute the
information found therein.  