SAN JOSE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Adobe ( ADBE ) today announced the 2017 release of Adobe Technical Communication Suite , the next-generation of its end-to-end technical content development toolkit. Technical Communication Suite enables companies to create, manage and publish standards-compliant, multilingual content for global audiences. The latest version of the multichannel publishing toolkit enables writers, information developers and instructional designers to deliver discoverable, consumable and socially-enabled content to users on any device. Adobe also announced a major update to the XML Documentation Add-on for Adobe Experience Manager , an enterprise-grade component content management system (CCMS) for DITA* based technical content, built on top of the leading content management system, Adobe Experience Manager . Enhanced integration between the 2017 release of Adobe FrameMaker and Experience Manager delivers more engaging experiences for those that consume technical documentation on the web. “In order to succeed, companies must consistently deliver great experiences to their customers, from the first time they reach out with marketing content to the delivery of technical documentation that supports their purchase,” said Adil Munshi, vice president and general manager, Print and Publishing Business at Adobe. “The 2017 release of Adobe Technical Communication Suite and the new XML Documentation Add-on for Adobe Experience Manager enable technical publishing departments to efficiently manage their content lifecycle and deliver immersive experiences throughout the customer journey.” All major components of Adobe Technical Communication Suite are now improved, including: XML Documentation Add-on for Adobe Experience Manager The reimagined XML Documentation Add-on for Adobe Experience Manager helps enterprises manage large volumes of content with frequent publishing and web-based collaboration needs. It introduces new capabilities for dynamic delivery of DITA content – like batch publishing, baseline publishing and automated post-output-generation tasks – directly to Experience Manager. Web-based review and collaboration has been completely revamped, allowing users to leave inline comments and annotations like text highlights, insertions and deletions. The built-in web editor has been significantly enhanced to provide a flexible authoring experience for subject matter experts not trained in DITA. By managing and deploying marketing and technical content from a single Adobe platform, enterprises can now deliver a consistent customer experience with both pre-sale marketing content and post-sale technical documentation — saving the enterprise time, money and eliminating redundancy. Partner/Customer Quotes “XML Documentation Add-on for Adobe Experience Manager enables our customers to transform their technical documentation experience from just a site with downloadable PDFs to a fully client-oriented portal focusing on the after sale needs of their customers. Also, the ease with which technical documentation content can be published to AEM and how seamlessly it integrates with the AEM website is impressive.” — Ruben Reusser, CTO, headwire.com, Inc. “The 2017 release of Adobe FrameMaker is the only solution in market which covers all major needs, out-of-the box, in editing and publishing for any device in any language. The new responsive HTML5 output enhancements in the 2017 release of Adobe FrameMaker, especially search autocomplete, are state of the art.” — Dieter Gust, Member of the Supervisory Board, Director of Research Development, itl “With each new release of RoboHelp and new iteration of the Responsive HTML5 output, we see fresh and exciting changes in functionality. With the 2017 release, Help has never looked so stylish and Responsive HTML5 output makes me look like a CSS and JavaScript wizard with zero coding.” — Rick Stone, Independent Adobe Certified RoboHelp and Captivate Instructor, Owner, ShowMe Solutions Helpful Links Pricing and Availability Adobe Technical Communication Suite, FrameMaker, RoboHelp and FrameMaker Publishing Server are immediately available through Adobe Authorized Resellers and Adobe.com. Estimated street price for Adobe Technical Communication Suite is US$1699 (upgrades from US$699). FrameMaker and RoboHelp are available as standalone products for an estimated street price of US$999 each (upgrades from US$399). FrameMaker Publishing Server is also available as a standalone product for an estimated street price of $14999 (upgrades from $5999), respectively. All products are also available via annual subscription/membership plans. For details on pricing and language support please visit the respective product websites. About Adobe Adobe is changing the world through digital experiences. For more information, visit www.adobe.com . * The Darwin Information Typing Architecture (DITA) is an XML data model for authoring and publishing. It is an open standard that is defined and maintained by the OASIS DITA Technical Committee . © 2017 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All rights reserved. Adobe and the Adobe logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20170131006024/en/ .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;} Mike D: For anyone who doesn't watch Fox News with regularity. Shep Smith has always been anti-Trump. He takes President Trump's attacks on the media very personally. Myself, I find it a little over the top and he's definitely incapable of being anywhere near impartial when he reports on the President but that's not unusual these days. 5.2k