Published: Feb 15, 2017 9:43 a.m. ET Parental leave sometimes comes with a baby shower and ‘parent concierge’ By Pulin Modi started working for the petitioning website Change.org before he became a dad, and even before he and his wife knew if they wanted to have children. Now that they have a 15-week-old son, Satya, the company’s 18-week parental leave policy, which employees are allowed to use any time during their baby’s first year, has become a valuable perk. The Modis even received an embroidered blanket with Satya’s name on it from Change.org, along with children’s books Pulin’s colleagues purchased on their own. That’s uncommon — just 12% of U.S. private sector workers have access to paid family leave through their employer, according to the U.S. Department of Labor. Knowing that the company offered perks for parents, including paid leave, put the couple’s minds at ease when planning to have a family, he said. “You don’t feel like you’re taking a hit to spend time with your child,” said Modi, a senior campaigner at Change.org. Change.org isn’t the only company that offers a relatively lengthy parent leave policy, and many companies have increased theirs recently, even offering baby showers, gifts and other benefits for parents. As companies compete for talent, even outside of the tech world, offering these types of perks and benefits has become increasingly important, said Scott Dobroski, a community expert at the jobs site Glassdoor. Some 57% of job seekers consider perks and benefits to be a top consideration before taking a new job, a recent Glassdoor survey found. The U.S. doesn’t require employers to offer paid parental leave, although some companies do have to offer 12 weeks of unpaid leave for new mothers , including public agencies, public and private elementary and secondary schools and companies with 50 or more employees. President Donald Trump during his campaign proposed six weeks of paid maternity leave (his platform did not mention leave for fathers), savings accounts for families to cover child-related costs and spending rebates of up to $1,200 per year to lower-income families through the Earned Income Tax Credit. In recent years, many companies have one-upped one another in offering far more than what is legally required . For example, Facebook FB, +0.30%   offers four months of paid time off for new parents after they have or adopt a child. And Sheryl Sandberg, the company’s chief operating officer, announced this week the company is beginning to offer up to 20 days of bereavement leave for employees who lose an immediate family member and up to 10 days for an extended family member. Netflix NFLX, -0.18%   made headlines in 2015 for beginning to offer unlimited leave for new parents during the first year after a child’s birth or adoption. Read: Why companies are paying for IVF for their workers but don’t want to talk about it The online marketplace Etsy ETSY, -3.08%   started a new parental leave policy nine months ago, which offers 26 weeks of paid leave to all employees who become parents. Etsy also offers company-branded baby gifts, a company email group for parents to swap advice, an internal resource guide for becoming a parent and social events parents can bring their families to, such as “crafternoons” to work on crafting projects together. Software company Adobe ADBE, +0.17%   also offers 26 weeks for birth mothers, plus resources to find discounted childcare and a “Welcome Back” program that helps employees and managers facilitate the transition back to work. Around 12-15 million people use wearable technology for health care - a market that includes Fitbit, Apple, Samsung and LG. MarketWatch spoke to Kate McCarthy, a health-care analyst that manages a rare disease using an Apple Watch and a service dog. Music streaming company Spotify offers up to six months of paid leave for full-time employees, which they can use up until their child’s third birthday. The company also gives parents gift packages , including a child’s T-shirt that says “I’m with the band.” American Express AXP, -0.11%   began offering 20 weeks to all employees who have babies in 2017 , plus additional time for mothers when medically necessary. The company also offers reimbursement up to $35,000 to cover adoption or surrogacy, a lifetime benefit of up to $35,000 for reproductive and fertility treatments, free 24-hour access to certified lactation consultants, free breast-milk shipping for those traveling on company business and access to a “parent concierge” that helps parents with resources during their leaves. Apple AAPL, -0.12%   offers up to 18 weeks for birth mothers and six weeks for non-birth parents, offers an adoption assistance program and an app specifically for employees that allows them to track prenatal milestones. And Yahoo YHOO, -1.07%   offers eight weeks of paid leave, plus up to eight additional weeks for birth mothers if needed. The company also offers a reimbursement to new parents for child-related expenses, hosts “new child showers” for parents and distributes Yahoo-branded baby gifts. Amazon.com Inc. AMZN, +0.17%   offers up to 20 weeks paid leave for birth mothers, six weeks for new fathers and six weeks for all adopting parents. And yet when it comes to keeping employees around, some of the flashier perks aren’t the ones that matter most, Glassdoor research has found he said. The benefits that make the biggest long-term impact on employees’ satisfaction are health insurance, vacation and time off, pension plans, 401(k) and other retirement plans and dental insurance, followed by maternity and paternity leave. “If something goes wrong, retirement savings and health insurance can be costly,” Dobroski said. “The benefits that impact health and carry large monetary value is what employees want the most.” This advertisement is provided by Bankrate, which compiles rate data from more than 4,800 financial institutions. Bankrate is paid by financial institutions whenever users click on display advertisements or on rate table listings enhanced with features like logos, navigation links, and toll free numbers. Dow Jones receives a share of these revenues when users click on a paid placement. Maria LaMagna covers personal finance for MarketWatch in New York. Maria LaMagna covers personal finance for MarketWatch in New York. Join the conversation Copyright 2017 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved. By using this site you agree to the Terms of Service , Privacy Policy , and Cookie Policy . Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use . Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data delayed per exchange requirements. S P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones Company, Inc. All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.