{{contrib_block.display_author.name}} Voice Michael Humphrey , {{contrib_block.display_author.type}} Contributor {{contrib_block.display_author.type}} Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile '"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. This is a three-part monthly series about the role software will play in Virtual Reality storytelling, seen through the lens of Adobe Research and creators. Part 1: Inside Adobe's Head(set) You stand near a white picket fence, feet away from a cliff near Pigeon Point Light Station on the San Francisco Bay. Sightseers mill and read signs in bright blue daylight, gazing at the 145-year-old matte-white lighthouse, rising over clapboard buildings. You turn around to see waves lapping on the rocky shore, gulls swooping overhead, streaky horizon clouds hovering beneath the noon sun on this pleasant California day. Wait. Nope. Now you stand on a small airport tarmac, watching four people examine a vintage prop engine biplane, bright yellow. That jarring transition needs to be fixed. You pull off your Oculus headset and now you are, actually always were, in an Adobe SF conference room. “What have you learned about transition?” you ask Brian Williams, senior computer scientist for Premiere Pro at Adobe. “Uhhh,” he hesitates, as his colleagues in the conference room chuckle. Transitioning a half-globe of visual information is, it turns out, pretty tricky to do well. “Okay, so, 80 percent of most effects are dissolves, color and titles. A horizontal wipe will work, vertical wipes is going to look funky.” “Star wipes,” jokes Laura Williams Argilla, Adobe director of Services and Worklows for Creative Cloud Video. “Oh God,” Williams. Outside Adobe SF. Bronwyn Lewis, Adobe product manager for Video Editing, brings up Corridor Digital’s “Where’s Waldo” VR video. “They had this wipe, similar to a diagonal wipe, from the sky.” You could not have had this conversation with the Creative Cloud Video Team, or very many people at all, even two years ago. “Making VR content actually requires a huge amount of technical skill,” Williams Argilla says. “That often conflicts with creative intent, because you have to have both skill sets. So Brian is making sure that the ability to create content that doesn’t exclude people who are more creative than technical.” For filmmakers, the blending of creative and technical aptitude has been beneficial. But there’s a limit, one that has more elements than the kind of rigs you use, or the headsets they will eventually populate. In the center of all of that, there is software. Until recently, the pioneers of Virtual Reality storytelling, especially live action, were using the digital equivalent of baling wire and duct tape to tell their stories. For the Video Team, it was hearing multiple times that video creators were using Premiere to edit VR that sprung them into action. Turns out it was not the easiest sell. “I think there’s a lot of hesitance to invest in new platforms,” Williams Argilla says. “People remember everyone running toward 3D TV and that never took off.” That meant the team, especially Brian Williams, solved problems in the crevices of the workday and well beyond. Last April, Adobe announced it would release VR editing capabilities into its Premiere Pro software. The new capabilities include auto-detection of VR, and affordances for the editor to assign properties to the sequences, track the head-mounted display and seamlessly publish to specific platforms, such as YouTube and Facebook. You can't blame any company for wondering about the future of VR. So what changed? “I think it’s when Brian started making stuff,” she says. “What did it for me was the enthusiasm around VR and spherical content from people who aren’t held to other companies, like big media companies, it’s that kind of groundswell.” From YouTubers to Hollywood start-ups, there is broad and independent coalition who believe you will put on a headset, or perhaps Augmented Reality lenses, to consume a new kind of story. This can scale quickly, especially because your smartphone and an affordable, and decent, headset allows you to jump into the world quickly. But to even get this far, the team had to be comfortable with a whole list of ifs. If audiences are going to be interested in Virtual and Augmented Reality stories, beyond the initial novelty, really good narratives must draw them in like any other media. If filmmakers are going to create those great immersive stories, they need to put their energies into inventing new possibilities for the headset. If that is going to succeed, an even wider range of creators, both professionals and enthusiasts, must experiment with, and ultimately deliver, content that audiences need to consume and want to discuss. If creators are going to do that, they need intuitive software that will enable experimentation and iteration close to real-time and at high capacities. If all of that happens, software will become, as it so often is, a quiet center of the Virtual and Augmented Reality revolution. Adobe and their partners’ would want to be there for that, of course. As one of the leaders of a powerful crossover market (enthusiast to professional editors), the chance to ease users from the flat screen to a spherical one ensures they would keep pace with a rapidly changing creative need. But you know, that’s only a small slice of the “ifs.”