Should you join him? Don't make snap decisions Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! Top Financial Stocks JPM +1.00% BAC +2.20% WFC +1.28% C +1.39% USB +0.89% Financial stocks were trading higher again Wednesday, with the NYSE Financial Sector Index adding around 0.4% in value this afternoon although financial companies in the S P 500 Index were holding on to a 0.7% advance. In company news, Maiden Holdings Ltd ( MHLD ) fell hard on Wednesday after the re-insurance company last night said it will take a $120 million reserve charge against its financial results for the three-month and the 12-month periods ended Dec. 31. The company blamed its commercial auto business for the bulk of the Q4 charge, which includes a provision substantially strengthening its reserve balances as well as an unidentified adverse development realized during the final three months of 2016. But despite the upcoming charge, Maiden Holdings said the company still expects to report "modest" Q4 and FY16 operating and net earnings, adding there also should not be any change in its quarterly dividends. MHLD shares were down just under 10% at $17.00 apiece, staying within 20 cents of their session low. In other sector news, (+) FIG, (+28.5%) SoftBank confirms $3.3 bln takeover proposal, agreeing to swap $8.08 in cash for each FIG share, a 38.6% premium over Monday's closing price. FIG shareholders also will likely receive two dividend payments of up to $0.09 per share before deal closes. (-) AIG, (-8.9%) Q4 net loss from continuing operations widens to $2.93 per share, almost doubling its $1.50 per share loss in the year-ago period. Board approves $3.5 bln stock buyback program and declares $0.32 per share dividend, payable March 29 to shareholders of record on March 15. The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Copyright (C) 2016 MTNewswires.com. All rights reserved. Unauthorized reproduction is strictly prohibited. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.