This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. To order presentation-ready copies for distribution to your colleagues, clients or customers visit http://www.djreprints.com. http://blogs.wsj.com/cfo/2017/02/15/aigs-5-6-billion-charge-dampens-turnaround-hopes/ ENLARGE Pedestrians walk past the American International Group Inc. (AIG) headquarters office in New York. Photo: Bloomberg News The $5.6 billion pre-tax hit to American International Group Inc.’s claim reserves announced Tuesday was far more than many investors expected, and the specific years the charge covers might be cause for more worries. The majority of the charge, $3 billion, covered the years 2011 to 2015. Another $1.3 billion was attributed to the years from 2006 to 2010, while $1.3 billion of the charge was for 2005 and the years prior. The more detailed breakdown of the charge may dim hopes of a rebound at the insurer, which is under pressure from activist investors Carl Icahn and John Paulson. The most recent years were ones in which AIG was viewed by some investors as turning around its property and casualty business. Following the 2008 U.S. government takeover of the insurer and subsequent asset sales, some analysts and investors had turned bullish on the company. “My observation is that if everything they took a charge for happened in the distant past, it would be much easier to embrace the turnaround story,” said Randy Binner, an insurance analyst at FBR Capital Markets Co. in an interview. He points out that the $5.6 billion charge included $1.3 billion for 2015, and $1.2 billion for 2013 and 2014. “Their recent year activity has been deficient,” Mr. Binner said. AIG shares fell 9% to close at $60.85 on Wednesday, while the S P 500 rose 0.5% to 2349.25. The reserve charge was largely due to AIG’s U.S. workers’ compensation and excess casualty lines, according to company documents. In AIG’s earnings call Wednesday, chief executive Peter Hancock said the firm “reacted to emerging severity trends across lines and accident years,” according to a transcript from FactSet. “The trends we witnessed and reacted to this quarter were broad, and we believe are materially impacting the overall U.S. casualty market, which we see generally as rate inadequate,” Mr. Hancock said. “We chose to make more prudent reserve assumptions.” An AIG spokeswoman declined comment beyond the company’s Wednesday earnings call and earlier press release. In January, AIG disclosed that it was ceding 80% of its reserve risk on most of its U.S. commercial insurance exposure before 2016 to Berkshire Hathaway Inc. for a payment of $9.8 billion. At the time, AIG said it expected to report a material charge for the fourth quarter, without disclosing its size. However, analysts expected a far smaller charge. Credit Suisse, for example, in a research note Wednesday said that it had expected a reserve deficiency of just $2 billion. How can leaders better connect with and motivate their teams, whether they’re in the same room or scattered around the world? Punit Renjen, CEO, Deloitte Global, shares six leadership lessons he learned as he transitioned to a global role, lessons that can be applied regardless of the scale of the organization. At the core of many of these  lessons is the importance of communications, especially in a global and increasingly virtual business environment. Clawbacks? Do I hear a call for clawbacks? Isn't this the classic situation where management gets paid based on reported results and then later tells the public that those numbers were too high? It sounds to me like salaries, bonuses and stock-based compensation were too high as well. Clawbacks? Subscribe Now Sign In WSJ Membership Customer Service Tools Features Ads More Copyright 2014 Dow Jones Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. Distribution and use of this material are governed by our Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.