American International Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer Peter Hancock, seeking to recover from the company’s biggest stock drop since 2011, said the worst is behind the insurer after he struck a deal to limit risk on poorly performing policies. “Our mix of business is better positioned today than a year ago by quite a margin,” Hancock said Thursday at a conference hosted by Bank of America Corp. “We’re really reshaping the portfolio to a more sustainable mix around the clients that value what we do most. This is a very important moment in the company’s history in terms of putting the past behind us.” More from Bloomberg.com: Trump's F-35 Calls Came With a Surprise: Rival CEO Was Listening Hancock has been divesting assets and in January announced an agreement to pay Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. about $10 billion to assume risks of further losses on a portfolio of commercial contracts. AIG has suffered for years with higher-than-expected claims costs on policies including workers’ compensation and commercial vehicle coverage. The company posted a fourth-quarter loss of $3.04 billion late Tuesday. For AIG, “2016 was a year with a lot of change and a lot of accomplishments,” Hancock said. “While I’m not happy with the fourth quarter, I’m very happy with the total progress of the year because it was a very pivotal year for the company.” More from Bloomberg.com: Americans Just Broke the Psychologists’ Stress Record The CEO also said that he expects to renew a separate reinsurance deal with Swiss Re AG on “ favorable terms .” AIG rose 1.6 percent to $61.81 at 10:28 a.m., the best performance in the 63-company S P 500 Financials Index. That follows Wednesday’s 9 percent slide. More from Bloomberg.com Read AIG Is Better Positioned by 'Quite a Margin,' CEO Says on bloomberg.com Mike D: For anyone who doesn't watch Fox News with regularity. Shep Smith has always been anti-Trump. He takes President Trump's attacks on the media very personally. Myself, I find it a little over the top and he's definitely incapable of being anywhere near impartial when he reports on the President but that's not unusual these days. 5.3k