American International Group ( AIG ) tumbled to the bottom of the S P 500 today after its earnings fell well short of the Street consensus. AIG dropped 8.9% to $60.85 today, while the S P 500 gained 0.5% to 2,349.25. Yes, AIG s earnings were bad. It reported an operating loss of $2.72 a share, missing forecasts for a profit of 42 cents , according to Bloomberg . And it didn t help that John Paulson s Paulson Co. cut its stake in the insurer . You ll notice the forecast is different than what it was in my earlier post on AIG and an AIG spokesperson even reached out to tell me that the consensus, at least according to FactSet, should had been for a loss of 61 cents a share. Why the confusion? RBC s Mark Dwelle and Scott Heleniak have your answer: In reporting results AIG has recast all of its business segments, transferring various pieces to a “Legacy” unit, reallocating corporate expenses and net investment income as well as making some changes as to what is included within operating income, the most notable of which is that loss reserve discount effects in U.S. Commercial Insurance (and the Legacy unit) are now excluded from Operating Income. Accordingly, comparisons to prior reported results, and to some extent our 4Q16 estimates, require some reconciliation. Macquarie s Amit Kumar considers the bull and bear cases on AIG: On 2/14, after market close, AIG reported a Q4 operating loss of $2.72 per share vs. our estimate of a $0.52 loss and street consensus of a $0.54 loss. Results are not directly comparable to street consensus due to lack of unanimity in terms of reserve adjustment estimates. Results included a higher than estimated $5.6 billion or $3.56/share of adverse development. The company had previously announced the possibility of a material reserve charge in the quarter. The bulls on the stock would note that this quarter s charge brings likely finality to the noise that has marked AIG s results over the past several years while the bears would allude to a continued work in process story and the difference between reported ROE and using the full adjusted ROE to value this franchise vs its peers. American International Group market capitalization fell to $63.2 billion today from $69 billion yesterday. Error message Be the first to leave a comment on this blog. Earnings reports, corporate strategies and analyst insights are all part of what moves stocks, and they re all covered by the Stocks to Watch blog. We also look at macro issues, investor sentiments and hidden trends that are affecting the market. Stocks to Watch gives you the full picture of the U.S. stock markets, all day long. The blog is written by Ben Levisohn, a former stock trader who has covered financial markets for the Wall Street Journal, Bloomberg and BusinessWeek. Write to Ben at Ben.Levisohn@barrons.com Follow @ben_levisohn // Your email has been sent. An error has occured and your email has not been sent. Please try again .