In this series, we’ve discussed how Applied Materials ( AMAT ) is witnessing strong growth as the semiconductor industry and display industry transition to new technology. While the revenues of all of AMAT’s other segments depends on capital spending by customers, AGS (Applied Global Services) earns revenue on a constant basis. AGS helps manufacturers maintain and optimize the use of its equipment. AMAT earns 21% of its revenue from this segment. AMAT’s service teams work in sync with the product teams and help customers reduce time to ramp up production on new equipment, improve the yield and performance of the equipment, and optimize output and operating costs. Thus, AGS sales rise after it sells equipment. In fiscal 4Q16, AGS revenue rose 5.5% sequentially to $693 million after Semiconductor Systems revenue rose 12.5% sequentially in fiscal 3Q16. After Semiconductor Systems’ new orders rose 12.6% sequentially in fiscal 3Q16, AGS new orders rose 34.6% sequentially to $794 million in fiscal 4Q16. Service revenue rose in fiscal 4Q16 as Samsung ( SSNLF ) ramped up the 10-nm (nanometer) process, and Micron ( MU ) started production of 3D NAND. This momentum is likely to continue in fiscal 2017 as Intel ( INTC ) and TSMC ( TSM ) ramp up the 10-nm node   in 2H17 and Intel and Samsung begin volume production of 3D NAND. Generally, fiscal 1Q is a seasonally weak quarter for AGS. AMAT expects its AGS revenue to fall 3.8% sequentially to $666.6 million in fiscal 1Q17. However, if we look at the YoY (year-over-year) figure, this represents a growth of 10%, indicating that the services segment has grown sharply during the year. As the technology trend moves towards artificial intelligence, smart cars, the Internet of Things, and virtual reality, the demand for more advanced technology could become seasonal more than cyclical. As the complexity of equipment increases, there could be increasing demand for AGS, which would drive revenue growth in fiscal 2017 and beyond. Apart from capital spending, several macro factors impact AMAT’s revenue, as the company operates worldwide. Next, we’ll look at the key regions that could drive AMAT’s revenue in the future. Quote data by Xignite