BREAKING:  Dow, S P 500 Stay Down; Nasdaq Inches Into Positive Ground Need to register? Current subscribers register here . Chip gear maker Applied Materials late Wednesday beat expectations for its fiscal first quarter and guided higher for the current quarter. (Applied Materials) Chip gear maker Applied Materials ( AMAT ) late Wednesday beat expectations for its fiscal first quarter and guided higher for the current quarter. Applied Materials stock was up a fraction in after-hours trading following the earnings news release. During the regular session Wednesday, it increased 0.7% to 35.49 on the stock market today . Applied stock hit a more than 16-year high of 35.85 on Feb. 9. Results:  The Santa Clara, Calif.-based company earned 67 cents a share excluding items, up 158% year over year, on sales of $3.28 billion, up 45%, in the quarter ended Jan. 29. Analysts were expecting 66 cents EPS on sales of $3.27 billion. It was Applied's fourth straight quarter of accelerating sales and earnings-per-share growth. Outlook: Applied expects to earn 76 cents a share ex items, up 124%, on sales of $3.53 billion, up 44%, in the current quarter, its fiscal Q2. Wall Street had been modeling Applied to earn 63 cents EPS on $3.26 billion in sales. Stock Action: Applied Materials stock broke out of a cup base with a buy point of 31.17 on Nov. 18. "We set new records for earnings and orders in our first quarter, and 2017 is shaping up to be an outstanding year for Applied Materials," CEO Gary Dickerson said in a statement . "Our inflection-focused innovation strategy is delivering results and we are increasingly confident that we can maintain our trajectory of sustainable growth and raise the ceiling on our performance." The company's adjusted gross profit margin improved to 45.4% in Q1, compared with 43.7% in Q4 and 42.4% in the year-earlier quarter. Applied received a couple of price-target increases this week ahead of its earnings report. Applied Materials stock has a best-possible IBD Composite Rating of 99. It is ranked No. 14 on the IBD 50 list of top-performing growth stocks. RELATED: NetEase Crushes Q4 Earnings On Online Games; Stock Soars To Record High CBS Revenue Hit By NFL, Barrick Gold Beats; Goldcorp, Kinross Mixed NetApp Turnaround Comes Into Focus With Earnings Beat 9:24 AM ET Build and maintain your watch list with the latest news and analysis of the market's top-rated growth stocks. 9:24 AM ET Build and maintain your watch list with the latest news... The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association recommends that bond markets shutter on Monday as well. (AP) FANG CEOs Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, Reed Hastings and Larry Page. (AP) Find the broker that's right for you with IBD's annual list of the Best Online Brokers. Get 4 free weeks of the IBD Digital edition plus access to IBD s exclusive market analysis, proprietary stock ratings and interactive tools. Stay on top of the market with IBD s exclusive videos. You will find the latest news, market analysis, and education to help you become a more successful investor. Get the most out of IBD s products and features by learning the CAN SLIM Investing System and staying in sync with the market trend. Notice: Information contained herein is not and should not be construed as an offer, solicitation, or recommendation to buy or sell securities. The information has been obtained from sources we believe to be reliable; however no guarantee is made or implied with respect to its accuracy, timeliness, or completeness. Authors may own the stocks they discuss. The information and content are subject to change without notice. *Real-time prices by Bats®. Volume delayed. Real-time quote and/or trade prices are not sourced from all markets. © 2000-2017 Investor's Business Daily, Inc. All rights reserved