Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! Are you sad that Facebook, Google and Amazon have all reported earnings? Fear not. There are plenty of well-known companies that haven't yet reported and who have tremendous earnings surprise track records. It's not easy for companies to beat every quarter. It's only a select few who can be this consistent. Here are 4 who have that great record who are reporting at the end of this week. 1. Zoetis ZTS , the animal health care company, has missed only twice since its 2013 IPO. Shares are at new highs heading into the report. 2. Trinity Industries TRN has only missed once in the last 5 years. This rail car manufacturer, though, faces declining earnings as the rail cycle is headed down. Customers are the bottom of the ordering cycle. Will Trinity see any upside to orders in 2017? 3. Deere DE is a surprise as it's just missed twice in the last 5 years despite the slowdown in sales in the agriculture sector. Shares have soared to new 5 year highs on possible infrastructure spending. Will the rally continue? 4. Campbells CPB has a great track record with just 2 misses over the last 5 years. It has launched several new soups aimed at Generation Xers and Millennials that the company is hoping boosts profits. What else should you know about these earnings charts? Tune into the short video to find out. Want to Learn How to Trade Options on Applied Materials? If you want more guidance on the options trades this earnings season, Dave Bartosiak takes you through the trades on Zacks Live Trader . Do not miss Dave's analysis of the Applied Materials options trade below: Zacks' Top Investment Ideas for Long-Term Profit makeArticleAd(); How would you like to see our best recommendations to help you find today's most promising long-term stocks? Starting now, you can look inside our portfolios featuring stocks under $10, income stocks, value investments and more. These picks, which have double and triple-digit profit potential, are rarely available to the public. But you can see them now. Click here Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report Trinity Industries, Inc. (TRN): Free Stock Analysis Report Campbell Soup Company (CPB): Free Stock Analysis Report Deere Company (DE): Free Stock Analysis Report Applied Materials, Inc. (AMAT): Free Stock Analysis Report Zoetis Inc. (ZTS): Free Stock Analysis Report To read this article on Zacks.com click here. Zacks Investment Research The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.