Shares of chip equipment maker Applied Materials ( AMAT ) are down 30 cents, or 0.9%, at $35.19, despite slightly beating fiscal Q1 expectations yesterday afternoon , and forecasting results this quarter much higher than consensus. The issue is the outlook for the second half of this year. The implication from management on last night’s call was that business will be weaker in the latter part of 2017 . With the stock having doubled in the last 12 months, and rising 9% this year, that gives many pause. This is not totally unexpected. My column for Barron’s magazine last month pointed out the matter. From that column, Intel, Taiwan Semiconductor, and Samsung are “all spending at the same time,” observes Maire. While that is less precarious than in years past, it still means a lot of the $35 billion in spending is happening in a rush and may cool rapidly later this year. On the call, chief executive Gary Dickerson  pointed out that there is a “battle for leadership in next-generation mobile screens,” which is driving demand for Applied’s tools for making organic light-emitting diode, or OLED, glass. He said the company now expects the industry to spend $3 billion on glass manufacturing materials this year, half as much again as Applied previously forecast. But analyst Farhan Ahmad  with Credit Suisse  pointed out that peers in the industry are forecasting “a significant decline in the second half of the year,” and the response from CFO Robert Halliday  basically ducked the question, but left everyone feeling he had confirmed Ahmad’s point. Ahmad, however, reiterating his Outperform rating on the shares, and a $42 price target, is inclined to look past those second-half worries and look forward to 2018: AMAT s commentary supports our view that 2018 could be sixth consecutive year of rev growth – a sharp contrast to 1995 to 2012 – when the company never had more than two years of consecutive growth. As end market growth diversifies from consumer/handset to multiyear silicon intensive non-consumer applications such as AI, Cloud, IoT, and Autonomous Cars – we see a more sustainable growth. This is now a Company that grows revs single digit in downturn and double digit in upturns . Timothy Arcuri of Cowen Co . is even more emphatic. Reiterating an Outperform rating, and a $40 price target, writes that While an incredibly big order # begs inevitable cyclical concerns, in 20 yrs of covering AMAT we have never seen such out-year confidence ( 18!) this early in a year. Shipments should fade somewhat in 17, but China is on the come (OLED and semis) and FCF over the next 6-8Qs should facilitate massive increases in capital return,” concludes Arcuri. Even bears sound rather inclined to give the company the benefit of the doubt. Amit Daryanani  with RBC Capital , who has a Sector Perform rating on the stock, today increases his price target to $35 from $30, writing that  “while we understand investors concerns around cycle peak , we think the reality remains that in 2017, WFE [wafer front-end equipment spending] is heading higher (+5% or more), and AMAT s share should improve, enabling the company to again outgrow WFE in 2017. Robert Maire  with Semiconductor Advisors  gives some trading advice: The reaction to AMAT in the after market was OK but not great as the outlook offset the in line quarter. The issue of the slowing second half still hangs over the overall group and investors are not buying into a higher PE plea. We think the shares are a solid investment for investors who want good exposure to both semis and display. The stock has been on a strong run over the last 18 months so we would continue to be on the look out for further signs of slowing that could halt that run. In the meantime we will likely continue to see good progress as the company continues to have great execution and grinds higher and higher. Error message Be the first to leave a comment on this blog. Tech Trader Daily is a blog on technology investing written by Barron’s veteran Tiernan Ray. The blog provides news, analysis and original reporting on events important to investors in software, hardware, the Internet, telecommunications and related fields. Comments and tips can be sent to: techtraderdaily@barrons.com . Follow @barronstechblog !function(d,s,id){var js,fjs=d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];if(!d.getElementById(id)){js=d.createElement(s);js.id=id;js.src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js";fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js,fjs);}}(document,"script","twitter-wjs"); Your email has been sent. An error has occured and your email has not been sent. Please try again .