BREAKING:  Dow, S P 500 Stay Down; Nasdaq Inches Into Positive Ground Need to register? Current subscribers register here . Semiconductor and display equipment maker Applied Materials beat fiscal Q1 expectations and guided higher, but many investors were not impressed. (Applied Materials) Semiconductor and display equipment maker Applied Materials ( AMAT ) beat fiscal first-quarter expectations and guided higher, but many investors were not impressed. Applied Materials stock fell as much as 2.6% in early morning trading on the stock market today , but it ended the day at 35.18, down just 0.87%. Shares touched a more than 16-year high of 35.85 touched a week ago. Late Wednesday, the Santa Clara, Calif.-based company said it earned 67 cents a share excluding items, up 158% year over year, on sales of $3.28 billion, up 45%,  in the quarter ended Jan. 29 . Analysts were expecting 66 cents EPS on sales of $3.27 billion. It was Applied's fourth straight quarter of accelerating sales and earnings-per-share growth. For the current quarter, its fiscal Q2, Applied expects to earn 76 cents a share ex items, up 124%, on sales of $3.53 billion, up 44%, at the midpoint of its guidance. Wall Street had been modeling Applied to earn 63 cents a share on $3.26 billion in sales. IBD'S TAKE: Applied Materials stock has a best-possible IBD Composite Rating of 99. It is ranked No. 15 on the IBD 50 list of top-performing growth stocks. Applied Materials stock received price-target increases Thursday from Needham, Pacific Crest Securities, RBC Capital Markets and UBS. "Applied Materials continues to benefit from its product development efforts, with ongoing share gains in semiconductors and display, enhanced by a very strong near-term demand environment," Pacific Crest analyst Weston Twigg said in a report. He reiterated his overweight rating on Applied stock and upped his price target to 44 from 37. "Semiconductor demand is being led by the 3D Nand buildout and 10-nanometer foundry, while display demand is being driven by both the OLED ramp and new Gen 10.5 (large-format) fabs for large TVs," Twigg said. Applied said the OLED display ramp for smartphones is broadening, with half of OLED demand expected to come from new entrants this year. Samsung has dominated in OLED-screen smartphones, but others like Apple ( AAPL ) are expected to follow. Cowen analyst Timothy Arcuri maintained his outperform rating and price target of 40 on Applied. Investors likely are cautious because of traditional cyclicality in semiconductor capital equipment sales, Arcuri said. "With another record order number and very strong April-quarter guide, 'old school' investors will question the sustainability," Arcuri said in a report. "Yes, the company's guide tacitly implies some moderation in orders from this record level, but in our 20 years covering this stock we have never heard the company talk so bullishly about the out year (2018)." RELATED: Possible OLED Use In Apple Phones Seen Boosting Two Screen Tech Firms Cisco Price Targets Hiked On Sign Software, Services Clicking Nvidia broke its 50-day line in early trading but has recovered much of its losses. (Nvidia) 12:08 PM ET The major indexes reversed from early losses, but some leading stocks remained mired in the red ahead of the long... 12:08 PM ET The major indexes reversed from early losses, but some leading... The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association recommends that bond markets shutter on Monday as well. (AP) FANG CEOs Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, Reed Hastings and Larry Page. (AP) Find the broker that's right for you with IBD's annual list of the Best Online Brokers. Get 4 free weeks of the IBD Digital edition plus access to IBD s exclusive market analysis, proprietary stock ratings and interactive tools. Stay on top of the market with IBD s exclusive videos. You will find the latest news, market analysis, and education to help you become a more successful investor. Get the most out of IBD s products and features by learning the CAN SLIM Investing System and staying in sync with the market trend. Notice: Information contained herein is not and should not be construed as an offer, solicitation, or recommendation to buy or sell securities. The information has been obtained from sources we believe to be reliable; however no guarantee is made or implied with respect to its accuracy, timeliness, or completeness. Authors may own the stocks they discuss. The information and content are subject to change without notice. *Real-time prices by Bats®. Volume delayed. Real-time quote and/or trade prices are not sourced from all markets. © 2000-2017 Investor's Business Daily, Inc. All rights reserved