Should you join him? Don't make snap decisions Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! Realty Income Corp (Symbol: O) has been named to the Dividend Channel ''S.A.F.E. 25'' list, signifying a stock with above-average ''DividendRank'' statistics including a strong 4.2% yield, as well as a superb track record of at least two decades of dividend growth, according to the most recent ''DividendRank'' report. According to the ETF Finder at ETF Channel , Realty Income Corp is a member of the iShares S P 1500 Index ETF ( ITOT ), and is also an underlying holding representing 1.72% of the SPDR S P Dividend ETF ( SDY ), which holds $258,093,217 worth of O shares. Realty Income Corp (Symbol: O) made the "Dividend Channel S.A.F.E. 25" list because of these qualities: S . Solid return - hefty yield and strong DividendRank characteristics; A. Accelerating amount - consistent dividend increases over time; F . Flawless history - never a missed or lowered dividend; E. Enduring - at least two decades of dividend payments. makeArticleAd(); The annualized dividend paid by Realty Income Corp is $2.526/share, currently paid in monthly installments, and its most recent dividend ex-date was on 01/30/2017. Below is a long-term dividend history chart for O, which the report stressed as being of key importance. O operates in the REITs sector, among companies like Simon Property Group, Inc. ( SPG ), and American Tower Corp ( AMT ). Top 25 S.A.F.E. Dividend Stocks Increasing Payments For Decades » The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.