Should you join him? Don't make snap decisions Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! InvestorPlace InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice Trading Tips One of the core principles of the U.S. tax system is that it is progressive. This means that you will pay higher taxes as you earn more income, which is based on so-called "tax brackets." But the system hasn't always achieved the goal of fairness. Some people pay large amounts of taxes even though they might not be rich. What's more, many wealthy people have been able to pay trifling amounts. A famous example of this is  Berkshire Hathaway Inc.'s (NYSE: BRK.A , NYSE: BRK.B ) Warren Buffett, who has famously admitted that his tax rate is lower than his secretary's. To help avoid some of these problems, the IRS actually has two tax systems. One is the traditional approach, which affects most people. The other is the alternative minimum tax (AMT), which  essentially disallows certain deductions and credits  to try to ensure wealthy people pay higher taxes. As should be no surprise, the rules can get extremely complicated, and it's common for middle-class families to be affected by the AMT! Regardless of all this, there are still some important concepts to understand about how taxes are structured and how they impact tax returns. Again, it's about tax brackets, which are based on your income and filing status. Here's what the tax brackets look like if you are single: For example, suppose you earned $75,000 last year. Based on the chart above, you would take $5,183.75 and add $9,337.50 (this would be 25% of $75,000 minus $37,650), for a total of $14,521.25 in taxes. This means you will be in the 25% tax bracket (also known as your marginal tax rate). However, you do not have to pay this for all your income. Part was taxable at 10% and some was at 15%. In other words, your average tax rate is somewhere around 19.4% ($9,337.5 divided by $75,000). Keep in mind these tax brackets are for ordinary income, such as wages, commissions, tips, bonuses and so on. Yet there are different rates if you have long-term capital gains (this is if you hold an asset - like a stock, mutual fund, bond or real estate - for more than one year). Here's how they work, using the example of tax brackets for those who are married: If your income is $75,300 or lower, you will pay nothing for your long-term capital gains. In fact, the rate is only 20% if your income is at a hefty $466,950 or higher. Awesome deal, right? And this is one of the reasons people like Warren Buffet pay such low taxes - they generate much of their income from long-term capital gains. If you want to get a rough estimate of which tax bracket you fall in, you can check out the following online calculator . Or, if you want a more detailed analysis, you try this iOS app . Tom Taulli, who is a JD and Enrolled Agent, has his own free iOS app to estimate your tax refund, which is at PathwayTax.com .  Follow him on Twitter at @ttaulli .  The post U.S. Tax Brackets: Where You Sit in 2017 appeared first on InvestorPlace . The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.