Should you join him? Don't make snap decisions Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! CorEnergy Infrastructure Trust, Inc. ( CORR ) will begin trading ex-dividend on February 09, 2017. A cash dividend payment of $0.75 per share is scheduled to be paid on February 28, 2017. Shareholders who purchased CORR prior to the ex-dividend date are eligible for the cash dividend payment. This marks the 6th quarter that CORR has paid the same dividend. The previous trading day's last sale of CORR was $35.84, representing a -3.14% decrease from the 52 week high of $37 and a 228.81% increase over the 52 week low of $10.90. CORR is a part of the Consumer Services sector, which includes companies such as Simon Property Group, Inc. ( SPG ) and American Tower Corporation (REIT) ( AMT ). CORR's current earnings per share, an indicator of a company's profitability, is $1.76. Zacks Investment Research reports CORR's forecasted earnings growth in 2016 as 24.16%, compared to an industry average of 2.5%. For more information on the declaration, record and payment dates, visit the CORR Dividend History page. Our Dividend Calendar has the full list of stocks that have an ex-dividend today. The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.