Should you join him? Don't make snap decisions Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! Monmouth Real Estate Investment Corporation ( MNR ) will begin trading ex-dividend on February 13, 2017. A cash dividend payment of $0.16 per share is scheduled to be paid on March 15, 2017. Shareholders who purchased MNR prior to the ex-dividend date are eligible for the cash dividend payment. This marks the 6th quarter that MNR has paid the same dividend. The previous trading day's last sale of MNR was $14.57, representing a -5.11% decrease from the 52 week high of $15.36 and a 40.1% increase over the 52 week low of $10.40. MNR is a part of the Consumer Services sector, which includes companies such as Simon Property Group, Inc. ( SPG ) and American Tower Corporation (REIT) ( AMT ). MNR's current earnings per share, an indicator of a company's profitability, is $.33. Zacks Investment Research reports MNR's forecasted earnings growth in 2017 as 10%, compared to an industry average of 2.2%. For more information on the declaration, record and payment dates, visit the MNR Dividend History page. Our Dividend Calendar has the full list of stocks that have an ex-dividend today. Interested in gaining exposure to MNR through an Exchange Traded Fund [ETF]? The following ETF(s) have MNR as a top-10 holding: PowerShares KBW Premium Yield Equity REIT Portfolio ( KBWY ). The top-performing ETF of this group is KBWY with an increase of 6.58% over the last 100 days. It also has the highest percent weighting of MNR at 2.24%. The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.