Need to register? Current subscribers register here . Facebook ( FB ) on Tuesday announced a soon-to-launch TV app for users to play its videos on Apple ( AAPL ) TV, Amazon ( AMZN ) Fire TV and Samsung Smart TV as it seeks to grab viewers on as many different platforms as possible. Facebook already is a huge player in video, and the TV app is just one more way for the social media giant to become a "video first" company. But Facebook also announced a new video change that will perk up users ears, like it or not. The networking giant said it will automatically play sound on autoplay videos in a user's news feed if the phone isn't on silent. Sound will also be on for video ads. That could get more people to attention to video and ads, but also annoy viewers. But Facebook said tests showed "positive feedback." "After testing sound on in News Feed and hearing positive feedback, we're slowly bringing it to more people. With this update, sound fades in and out as you scroll through videos in News Feed, bringing those videos to life," Facebook said in a blog post . Facebook also made changes to make vertical videos look better on phones and also created a way to minimize videos show they watch a video while scrolling through their feed. IBD'S TAKE: Facebook has a 60% annual pretax margin. That's No. 1 among stocks that also boast high return on equity and Composite Ratings. Here are the six such stocks with 50% profit margins or better . Meanwhile, Apple late Monday previewed its upcoming show, "Planet of the Apps," described by some as a cross of "Shark Tank" and "The Voice." It will debut this spring on the subscription Apple Music service. That show, and Apple's push into in-house content and longstanding talks for content deals, have many observers predicting that Apple Music may morph into Apple Media. Apple recently hired the former head of Amazon Fire TV, Timothy Twerdahl, to run Apple TV's product marketing. Twerdahl previously worked at Roku and Netflix ( NFLX ). His hire frees up Pete Distad to help work on content deals. Facebook fell 20 cents to 133.85 on the stock market today , holding close to its 135.49 intraday high set on Feb. 2. Apple rose 1.3% to 135.02, hitting an all-time high. RELATED: Apple Hires Former Amazon Fire Head To Help Revive Apple TV Apple Stock Hits Record High As Company Orders OLED Displays For iPhone 8 Alphabet, Amazon Are Back In Buy Zones, But Buyer Beware Mark Zuckerberg posted a long letter touting his vision for Facebook to drive an AI-fueled "global community." (Facebook) 10:31 PM ET Mark Zuckerberg posted a long letter touting his vision for Facebook to drive an AI-fueled "global community." 10:31 PM ET Mark Zuckerberg posted a long letter touting his vision for... In addition to the unveiling of Boeing's 787-10, Trump's appearance at the company's South Carolina plant Friday is expected to include an announcement on the Export-Import Bank. (Boeing) The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association recommends that bond markets shutter on Monday as well. (AP) FANG CEOs Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, Reed Hastings and Larry Page. (AP) Get the latest news, stock quotes and analysis of FANG stocks Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google-parent Alphabet. Get 4 free weeks of the IBD Digital edition plus access to IBD s exclusive market analysis, proprietary stock ratings and interactive tools. Stay on top of the market with IBD s exclusive videos. You will find the latest news, market analysis, and education to help you become a more successful investor. Get the most out of IBD s products and features by learning the CAN SLIM Investing System and staying in sync with the market trend. Notice: Information contained herein is not and should not be construed as an offer, solicitation, or recommendation to buy or sell securities. The information has been obtained from sources we believe to be reliable; however no guarantee is made or implied with respect to its accuracy, timeliness, or completeness. Authors may own the stocks they discuss. The information and content are subject to change without notice. *Real-time prices by Bats®. Volume delayed. Real-time quote and/or trade prices are not sourced from all markets. © 2000-2017 Investor's Business Daily, Inc. All rights reserved