Need to register? Current subscribers register here . E-commerce platform provider Shopify posted a Q4 beat early Wednesday. (Shopify) E-commerce platform provider Shopify ( SHOP ) hit a record high after the company reported fourth-quarter earnings before the market open Wednesday that beat on the top and bottom lines, as did its Q1 revenue guidance, though it sees rising losses on higher expenses. Shopify reported revenue of $130.4 million for Q4, up 86% from the year-earlier quarter and beating the Wall Street consensus estimate of $121.6 million. It was the fourth quarter in a row of revenue deceleration as the company gets bigger It reported break-even earnings per share minus items, beating the consensus estimates for a 2-cent loss and vs. a 1-cent loss in the year-earlier quarter. For Q1, it sees revenue of $120 million to $122 million, up 66% at the midpoint. It guided to an adjusted operating loss of $9 million to $11 million in Q1, up from $800,000 in Q4 and from $5.9 million in Q1 2016. Shopify stock jumped 8.1% to end trading at 60.61 on the stock market today . Shares now are up more than 40% this year, well extended from an early January breakout, and have hit an all-time high in four of the past five trading days. The company made its IPO in May 2015, with shares priced at 17, above its expected range. Shares popped 51% on their first day of trading. On Tuesday, RBC Capital Markets analyst Ross MacMillan raised his price target on Shopify to 63 from 52, with an outperform rating. "We continue to believe in a multiyear growth opportunity," MacMillan wrote in a research note. "We are also positive on continued product breadth, deeper integration with Amazon ( AMZN ), and positive partner checks and feedback," MacMillan wrote. Canada-based Shopify provides a cloud-based software-as-a-service e-commerce platform that businesses use to build websites and sell goods online and across multiple sales channels, including mobile and social media, and brick-and-mortar stores. Last month, Rosenblatt Securities reiterated a buy rating on Shopify, citing stronger-than-expected growth in online shopping during the holiday sales season. Among the reasons for owning Shopify, says Rosenblatt analyst Kirk Adams, are its differentiated e-commerce platform, its strong financial controls and its ability to integrate and partner with major players, especially Amazon and Facebook ( FB ). In October, Shopify announced a partnership with Facebook that allows users of Facebook Messenger to shop for and buy products on the instant messaging platform. RELATED: Shopify Gets Buy Rating As It Targets 'Vast And Underserved' Market Mark Zuckerberg posted a long letter touting his vision for Facebook to drive an AI-fueled "global community." (Facebook) 10:31 PM ET Mark Zuckerberg posted a long letter touting his vision for Facebook to drive an AI-fueled "global community." 10:31 PM ET Mark Zuckerberg posted a long letter touting his vision for... In addition to the unveiling of Boeing's 787-10, Trump's appearance at the company's South Carolina plant Friday is expected to include an announcement on the Export-Import Bank. (Boeing) The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association recommends that bond markets shutter on Monday as well. (AP) FANG CEOs Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, Reed Hastings and Larry Page. (AP) Get the latest news, stock quotes and analysis of FANG stocks Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google-parent Alphabet. Get 4 free weeks of the IBD Digital edition plus access to IBD s exclusive market analysis, proprietary stock ratings and interactive tools. Stay on top of the market with IBD s exclusive videos. You will find the latest news, market analysis, and education to help you become a more successful investor. Get the most out of IBD s products and features by learning the CAN SLIM Investing System and staying in sync with the market trend. Notice: Information contained herein is not and should not be construed as an offer, solicitation, or recommendation to buy or sell securities. The information has been obtained from sources we believe to be reliable; however no guarantee is made or implied with respect to its accuracy, timeliness, or completeness. Authors may own the stocks they discuss. The information and content are subject to change without notice. *Real-time prices by Bats®. Volume delayed. Real-time quote and/or trade prices are not sourced from all markets. © 2000-2017 Investor's Business Daily, Inc. All rights reserved