E-commerce behemoth Amazon.com, Inc.'s ( AMZN ) latest filing has predictably set off a flurry of analyst reports and media conjectures about the state of its business. The filing provides a first glimpse into Amazon Prime, the company's membership program that was launched more than a decade ago and offers a slew of benefits – ranging from expedited shipping to quality entertainment choices – to its members. Until now, the company had teased investors with numbers such as "tens of millions" relating to member growth and revenue from the service. (See also: Amazon Filing Reveals Prime Numbers for the First Time . ) This is not the first time that Amazon has come out with a big reveal after fudging numbers. For instance, not much was known about its cloud business until Amazon started reporting results on the segment in 2015. Investors are still waiting for data relating to the performance of Amazon's music streaming platform. For a company that claims to be driven by data, Amazon shares precious little with the markets about its own numbers for its services. (See also: Amazon Touts Alexa's Music Playing Capability .) Should investors be concerned about Amazon's habit of keeping the markets in the dark on specific numbers related to parts of its business? Not really. There are a couple of reasons why Amazon's circumspect attitude to sharing exact data is good for its stock. First, e-commerce activities (and indeed a majority of Amazon's businesses) fall into categories for which the regulatory and market landscape is still being sketched out. As such, they are not expected to contribute significantly to Amazon's bottom line until they reach an inflection point . As an example, the market for e-commerce didn't exist when Amazon launched in 1995. Twenty years later, the company has carved out a major niche for itself in this segment. Along the way, it has conducted several experiments to expand its reach into consumer homes. Some, like the Fire phone , failed, while others, such as the Amazon Marketplace, have been successful. But the company has a track record of recovering – by failing fast and closing shop on such failed experiments quickly. It did not share much data about these ventures in its earnings releases , leaving it to journalists and analysts to figure out the situation based on reported numbers. The effect of this strategy is to make the company's stock less vulnerable to volatility . (See also: Amazon's Marketplace Business Model Is Spreading .) Second, Amazon's stock benefits from an uptick once the company reveals numbers for a successful business. As an example, consider Amazon's cloud business, which was reported under the "Other" category for several years. Analysts and industry executives had speculated on the growth of that business. But when the company broke out earnings from its cloud division for the first time in 2015, it was with the finesse of a magician pulling off a much anticipated trick . The margins and revenue run rates for the division had investors salivating for more , and the company's stock price has doubled since then. Indeed, analysts and prominent investors have forecast great things for Amazon in the future on back of fat profit margins for its cloud business. (See also: AWS CEO: 35% YoY Is Just the Beginning .) The fact that Amazon chose to reveal revenue from Prime is proof that it is comfortable with service's performance and that it foresees a future for Prime in its business. In fact, the company's habit of not sharing data relating to its Prime service may turn out to be an advantage for its investors. This is because Amazon has not revealed much about Amazon Prime's margins or membership numbers in its latest filing. As Amazon builds out its own logistics network, it is sure to cut down on delivery costs as membership numbers increase for the service. Simultaneously, the increased average spend of Amazon Prime members will likely drive a virtuous circle of engagement for the service. The cumulative effect should be a boost to the company's stock price. (See also: Unwrapping Amazon's Logistics Moves .) Want to learn how to invest? Delivered twice a week, straight to your inbox.