(BI Intelligence) This story was delivered to BI Intelligence IoT Briefing subscribers. To learn more and subscribe, please click here . Smart home speakers like the Amazon Echo and the Google Home have been thus far positioned as novelty personal assistants, but this could soon change. The Wall Street Journal reports that both Amazon and Google are looking to integrate a voice-calling feature to the speakers, adding valuable functionality for users and giving the tech giants more insight into users' home lives. If the companies manage to launch the feature, it would impact not just the smart home experience, but the mobile one as well. The companies' strategies for integrating such a feature remain unclear, but it's likely that users’ existing mobile devices will need to be linked to their smart home speakers. There are two possible strategies on the table for bringing mobile connectivity to smartphones — one involves giving each device a unique phone number, and the other involves connecting the smart home device to a user's existing mobile device. The latter strategy is more likely because it would open access to users' existing contacts, call records, and favorites. There are a couple of implications of integrating voice calling to smart home speakers: But here are some issues that both companies and their customers could run into given the introduction of such a feature: The U.S. smart home market has yet to truly take off. At its current state, we believe the smart home market is stuck in the 'chasm' of the technology adoption curve, in which it is struggling to surpass the early-adopter phase and move to the mass-market phase of adoption. There are many barriers preventing mass-market smart home adoption: high device prices, limited consumer demand and long device replacement cycles. However, the largest barrier is the technological fragmentation of the smart home ecosystem, in which consumers need multiple networking devices, apps and more to build and run their smart home. John Greenough, senior research analyst for BI Intelligence , Business Insider's premium research service, has compiled a detailed report on the U.S. smart home market that analyzes current consumer demand for the smart home and barriers to widespread adoption. It also analyzes and determines areas of growth and ways to overcome barriers. Here are some key takeaways from the report: In full, the report: To get your copy of this invaluable guide, choose one of these options: The choice is yours. But however you decide to acquire this report, you’ve given yourself a powerful advantage in your understanding of the smart home market. More From Business Insider J: We need a law that forces anyone purporting to be "news" to clearly label editorials as editorials and advertisement as advertisement. People don't know the difference between objective journalism, editorial, and advertisement. Propaganda is dangerous. 4.6k