Here are some things going on today in your world of tech:  Shares of organic light-emitting diode technology vendor Universal Display ( OLED ) are up $1.80, or 2.7%, at $68.95, in  early trading, after Susquehanna ’s Mehdi Hosseini this morning started coverage of the stock with a “Positive” rating, and a $100 price target, writing that We believe secular OLED adoption in the smartphone (SP) and TV markets is set to accelerate, while UDC s robust patent portfolio and minimal competition reduces any potential risks to licensing streams. Speaking of OLED, Bloomberg yesterday had a piece saying Apple   ( AAPL ) is “in discussion” with LCD manufacturer BOE Technology Group Co . of China for “active matrix” OLED displays for an iPhone, citing multiple unnamed sources. Speaking of iPhone , Rod Hall  of J.P. Morgan  today pens the latest white paper on the potential inclusion of 3-D sensing  in a forthcoming iPhone, backing up the idea that has been suggested that 3-D will be used to recognize your face in order to unlock the iPhone — as opposed to being used for “augmented reality” applications. He recommends shares of Viavi Solutions ( VIAV ) and Lumentum Holdings ( LITE ) as suppliers that could benefit. Speaking of Apple, the stock has set a new high today, at $136.27, up about a buck from yesterday’s close, after word came after market close that Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway  more than quadrupled the firm’s stake in Apple stock in the three months ended in December, now standing at 57.3 million shares, or $6.5 billion, as related by my colleague Johanna Bennett  over on Focus on Funds. Ryan Knutson and Laura Stevens write this morning that Amazon  ( AMZN ) and Alphabet ’s ( GOOGL ) Google unit are both “considering” adding voice calling features to their home assistant devices, respectively “Echo” and “Google Home,” citing multiple unnamed sources. Speaking of Amazon and voice, yesterday I wrote in this space that the company announced a video conferencing service called Chime, run through Amazon’s cloud computing division, AWS. The reaction to that yesterday by LogMeIn  ( LOGM ) was dramatic: the stock was down $8.95, or 9%, at $94.35. But the shares are rebounding today, up $1.30, or 1.4%, at $95.65, after   RBC Capital ’s Matthew Hedberg overnight wrote that the drop was “an overreaction,” and that “the bottom line is LogMeIn is a feature-rich, easy to use B2B collaboration platform with a high degree of support that has done well by taking share in an already competitive market.” AWS has to prove Chime is easy to use and enteprise-friendly, he writes. Twitter ( TWTR ) shares are higher by 16 cents, or 0.9%, at $16.68, following reports CEO Jack Dorsey  bought $7 million worth of shares recently. Networking giant Cisco Systems ( CSCO ) reports fiscal Q2 earnings this afternoon, after the closing bell. The Street is modeling $11.55 billion in revenue and 56 cents per share in earnings. The shares are up 10 cents at $32.41. Error message Be the first to leave a comment on this blog. Tech Trader Daily is a blog on technology investing written by Barron’s veteran Tiernan Ray. The blog provides news, analysis and original reporting on events important to investors in software, hardware, the Internet, telecommunications and related fields. Comments and tips can be sent to: techtraderdaily@barrons.com . Follow @barronstechblog !function(d,s,id){var js,fjs=d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];if(!d.getElementById(id)){js=d.createElement(s);js.id=id;js.src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js";fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js,fjs);}}(document,"script","twitter-wjs"); Your email has been sent. An error has occured and your email has not been sent. Please try again .