Should you join him? Don't make snap decisions Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! Cincinnati Bell Inc. CBB reported disappointing financial numbers in fourth-quarter 2016 wherein both the top line and bottom line fell short of the Zacks Consensus Estimate. On a GAAP basis, quarterly net loss came in at $3.9 million or a loss of 9 cents per share compared with a net income of $30 million or 71 cents per share in the year-ago quarter. However, quarterly adjusted (excluding special items) earnings per share of 1 cent underperform the Zacks Consensus Estimate of 3 cents. FindTheCompany | Graphiq Quarterly total revenue was $285.3 million, down 4% year over year and also below the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $305.3 million. Operating income was $10.5 million, down a substantial 58% year over year owing to restructuring and severance related charges. Meanwhile, adjusted EBITDA (earnings before interest, depreciation and amortization) increased 4.7% year over year to $74.2 million in the reported quarter. EBITDA margin was 26% compared with 25% in the prior-year quarter. Cash Flow In fourth-quarter 2016, Cincinnati Bell generated $27.4 million of cash from operating activities compared with $16.2 million in the prior-year quarter. Quarterly free cash flow was a negative $71.8 million compared with a negative $55.9 million in the year-ago quarter. Liquidity Cincinnati Bell ended 2016 with cash and cash equivalents of $9.7 million compared with $14.8 million at the end of 2015. Net debt at quarter-end was $1,196.9 million compared with $1,230.2 million at 2015-end. Segmental Results Entertainment and Communications revenues rose 3% year over year to $193 million owing to a 23% rise in video revenues. The increase was partially neutralized by a 29% decline in services other revenues. IT Services and Hardware revenues decreased 9% year over year to $95.5 million. The downside was due to a 23% decline in telecom IT hardware revenues, partially mitigated by a 37% rise in cloud services revenues. Subscribers Statistics At the end of 2016, Cincinnati Bell had 0.2013 million residential voice lines, down 7.6% year over year and 0.3224 million business voice lines, up 5.7% year over year. Long distance lines were 0.3173 million, down 6.6%. DSL Internet subscribers were 0.1056 million, down 21%. Fioptics Internet customers were 0.1976 million, up 28.6%. Fioptics video subscribers were 0.1376 million, up 20.3% year over year. Cincinnati Bell Inc Price, Consensus and EPS Surprise Cincinnati Bell Inc Price, Consensus and EPS Surprise | Cincinnati Bell Inc Quote Outlook Cincinnati Bell expects revenues and adjusted EBITDA of approximately $1.2 billion and $295 million (plus or minus 2%), respectively, in 2017. Latest Deal In Nov 2016, Cincinnati Bell declared a deal with The E.W. Scripps Company, an American broadcasting company in Cincinnati. Per the deal, Scripps' wholly owned subsidiary - Newsy, a digital video news channel - will now be offered through its Fioptics cable television services. Newsy is accessible on devices such as Apple Inc.'s AAPL Apple TV, DISH Network Corp.'s DISH Sling TV, Roku, Amazon.com Inc.'s AMZN Fire TV and Google Chromecast. It is also available on mobile apps like iOS, Android and Kindle Fire. Cincinnati Bell currently carries a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). You can see the complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here . Zacks' Top Investment Ideas for Long-Term Profit makeArticleAd(); How would you like to see our best recommendations to help you find today's most promising long-term stocks? Starting now, you can look inside our portfolios featuring stocks under $10, income stocks, value investments and more. These picks, which have double and triple-digit profit potential, are rarely available to the public. But you can see them now. Click here Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report Amazon.com, Inc. (AMZN): Free Stock Analysis Report Cincinnati Bell Inc (CBB): Free Stock Analysis Report DISH Network Corporation (DISH): Free Stock Analysis Report Apple Inc. (AAPL): Free Stock Analysis Report To read this article on Zacks.com click here. Zacks Investment Research The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.