James Dix  of Wedbush Securities , who started coverage of  Alphabet ’s ( GOOGL ) Google  division with a dour view last September  regarding its advertising prospects, today reiterates an Underperform rating on the shares, and a $700 price target, writing that a meaningful cross-section of marketers is pulling back on paid search ad spending with GOOGL,” and that the company faces rising competition from Apple ( AAPL ), Facebook ( FB ), and especially Amazon  ( AMZN ). Dix makes the case competition is increasing: There are numerous scaled digital platforms that could offer ads to shoppers at the end of the purchase funnel, and who have only begun to do so: AMZN in e- commerce, AAPL in the iOS ecosystem, and FB on mobile generally. As WPP’s CEO said last month, The company that would worry me if I was a client—or I think worries our clients, more than Google and Facebook—is Amazon. Amazon’s Echo  voice-driven assistant “exemplifies search’s increasing interface risk,” writes Dix, which GOOGL management addresses on conference calls with early days generalities.” He suggests it could be the “siren song that becomes a swan song. Regarding the pull-back in marketers, Dix offers no detail but refers to the following table of data from research firms that track advertising: Alphabet shares today are up 8 cents at $840.11. Error message You would have to be nuts.. Wedbush has zero cred. None. If you want to sell GOOG, sell it because the snowflakes are living in their own alt-reality, and spending/wasting every last nickle of earnings. eff-U Google indeed, (former shareholder) Tech Trader Daily is a blog on technology investing written by Barron’s veteran Tiernan Ray. The blog provides news, analysis and original reporting on events important to investors in software, hardware, the Internet, telecommunications and related fields. Comments and tips can be sent to: techtraderdaily@barrons.com . Follow @barronstechblog !function(d,s,id){var js,fjs=d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];if(!d.getElementById(id)){js=d.createElement(s);js.id=id;js.src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js";fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js,fjs);}}(document,"script","twitter-wjs"); Your email has been sent. An error has occured and your email has not been sent. Please try again .