Amazon.com, Inc.'s ( AMZN ) annual report , which was filed last Friday , reveals numbers related to its Prime subscription service for the first time. According to a Bloomberg Gadfly post , the Seattle company's revenue from Amazon Prime and other subscription services rose by 42.1% to $6.4 billion last year. That figure compares with an almost 61% growth rate in sales to $4.5 billion in 2015. Assuming that 90% of the figure comes from Amazon Prime, analysts at Morgan Stanley have calculated that the service has 65 million members, a majority of whom are in the United States. But the filing does not throw much light on the service's profit margins . This is important because Amazon's retail business has low operating margins . Before Amazon disclosed margins from its cloud business, analysts were mostly bearish on the online retailer's prospects because it plowed most of its profits back into operating its retail business. A healthy margin from Amazon Prime could help boost the company's bottom line and further increase its lead over rivals. (See also: AWS CEO: 55% YoY Growth Is Just the Beginning .) Amazon Prime members are estimated to spend twice as much as non-Prime members. In recent times, the company has increased the perks of being a Prime member. In addition to expedited shipping and rewards benefits from co-branded credit cards , Prime members have access to a bunch of entertainment-related offerings, including Amazon Music and award-winning shows on its video-streaming service. (See also: Amazon Offers 20% Discount on Its Prime Membership .) Authors of the Bloomberg Gadfly post have posited that Amazon could use earnings from its Prime membership program to significantly reduce its logistics costs. Based on their calculations, revenue from the Prime stream helps the company defray its shipping and packing costs. "Arguably, the more Prime members Amazon attracts, the more efficient its shipping network tends to be, because it's able to deliver more items to more people on the same shipping routes using the same trucks (or drones?) it was using at lower volumes. In essence, additional density drives overall costs down," the post's authors write. (See also: Unwrapping Amazon's Moves in Logistics .) Want to learn how to invest? Delivered twice a week, straight to your inbox.