Need to register? Current subscribers register here . Amazon's Echo smart speaker could soon have voice calling and voice search features, observers speculate. (ZUMAPRESS.com/Newscom) Amazon.com ( AMZN ) and Google reportedly are working on technology that could turn their voice-activated, smart home speaker systems into phones, while there's also speculation over Amazon's plans for paid search on its popular Echo devices. Amazon has sold more than 8.2 million Echo home speakers, says Consumer Intelligence Research. Google-parent Alphabet ( GOOGL ) launched its artificial-intelligence supported home speaker system last fall but hasn't disclosed shipments. Amazon and Alphabet are racing to add more features to the internet-connected home devices. It's not clear if telecom regulations would get in the way of Amazon's Echo or Google Home adding communications features, the Wall Street Journal reported . Analysts view the new Republican-led Federal Communications Commission as being more friendly to AT T ( T ) and Verizon Communications ( VZ ) on regulation. IBD'S TAKE : Weibo, Netflix, and Tesla are on IBD's  Leaderboard , which follows top stocks from their work on forming bases, through their breakouts, to their post-breakout action, up to the point where they start topping. Meanwhile, observers speculate that Amazon might offer a search service via its Echo home devices, which would pose a threat to Google's core advertising business. A top Amazon executive signaled paid search plans at an advertising industry meeting on Jan. 19. While Google's business has weathered the migration of search to mobile phones from desktop PCs, voice-assisted technology from Amazon, Apple ( AAPL ) and possibly others could pose a long-term threat, analysts say. Google was asked about voice-based search on its Q4 earnings call on Jan. 26. Google CEO Sundar Pichai said: "On voice search, we are really excited about it. You know, I think it's a very natural way for users to interact. We think it will be one mode. Users will have many different ways by which they interact with computing. And for voice, you know, as you pointed out, we expect voice to work across many different contexts." "So we are thinking about it across phones, homes, TVs, cars, and, you know, trying to drive that ecosystem that way," Pichai added. "And we want Google to be there for users when they need it. And even with Google Home, we just launched it in Q4. We had a very strong quarter there. And, you know, we are going to invest a lot in it over 2017." Alphabet shares ended the day down 0.3% to 837.32 on the stock market today , while Amazon stock was up 0.8% to 842.70. Alphabet and Amazon last month hit buy points at 824.40 and 821.75, respectively, but the moves have been a bit shaky . RELATED: No Need To Ask Jeeves When You Can Ask Apple, Amazon, Facebook, Google Amazon Analysts Turn Sour Following Q4 Results Below Views Baidu is pushing into the smart-home field with its latest acquisition. (Gao limeng-Imaginechina/Newscom) 4:31 PM ET Baidu's push into artificial intelligence picked up with the purchase of Beijing startup Raven Tech and the creation of a... 4:31 PM ET Baidu's push into artificial intelligence picked up with the purchase... In addition to the unveiling of Boeing's 787-10, Trump's appearance at the company's South Carolina plant Friday is expected to include an announcement on the Export-Import Bank. (Boeing) The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association recommends that bond markets shutter on Monday as well. (AP) FANG CEOs Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, Reed Hastings and Larry Page. (AP) Get the latest news, stock quotes and analysis of FANG stocks Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google-parent Alphabet. Get 4 free weeks of the IBD Digital edition plus access to IBD s exclusive market analysis, proprietary stock ratings and interactive tools. Stay on top of the market with IBD s exclusive videos. You will find the latest news, market analysis, and education to help you become a more successful investor. Get the most out of IBD s products and features by learning the CAN SLIM Investing System and staying in sync with the market trend. Notice: Information contained herein is not and should not be construed as an offer, solicitation, or recommendation to buy or sell securities. The information has been obtained from sources we believe to be reliable; however no guarantee is made or implied with respect to its accuracy, timeliness, or completeness. Authors may own the stocks they discuss. The information and content are subject to change without notice. *Real-time prices by Bats®. Volume delayed. Real-time quote and/or trade prices are not sourced from all markets. © 2000-2017 Investor's Business Daily, Inc. All rights reserved