Need to register? Current subscribers register here . Facebook ( FB ) is making the right choice in targeting video as a top priority, allowing it more time to catch up in the field of artificial intelligence, where it lags, says Richard Windsor, an analyst at Edison Investment Research. Windsor, in an email note to clients, said that of three key areas of digital consumption — gaming, search and video — placing video first is the right move by Facebook "This is because Facebook already has a lot of traction in this space and also because it is the least demanding in terms of requiring intelligent automation," he wrote. Microsoft ( MSFT ), Alphabet ( GOOGL ) and Amazon ( AMZN ) have been investing heavily in artificial intelligence. Among the areas of AI applications are digital assistants for the home . Amazon has a big lead with its Echo device, while Alphabet has Google Home. Microsoft has deep roots in artificial intelligence with its Cortana platform, available on mobile devices and PCs. This is also true of Apple ( AAPL ) with its Siri platform. While Siri is available on the iPhone and iPad, Apple has not yet signaled when it might introduce an in-home digital assistant. IBD'S TAKE:   Facebook and Amazon are two of the four closely watched FANG stocks, along with Netflix and Google's parent company, Alphabet. Internet stocks are expected to   outperform the broader market   in 2017. Facebook on Tuesday made several announcements related to video, which could pose a threat to the YouTube business of Alphabet. The announcements included a Facebook app designed for watching Facebook videos on a television. The app will "roll out soon" to app stores for Apple TV, Amazon Fire TV and Samsung Smart TV, with more platforms to come," Facebook said in a blog post . Facebook, in October, initially rolled out the ability for users to stream videos from Facebook to your TV . The announcement Tuesday expands this capability. "With the launch of a TV app being just the latest move Facebook has made in video, it is increasingly clear that media consumption is Facebook's No. 1 priority for 2017," Windsor wrote. While the Facebook TV app will initially be available on Amazon TV and Apple TV, Windsor says it will quickly spread to Microsoft Xbox, Sony ( SNE ) PlayStation and other streaming TV devices. He does not expect to find the app on Chromecast by Alphabet, "as Facebook's video aspirations are clearly a challenge to YouTube," he wrote. The focus on video gives Facebook more time to develop its artificial intelligence technology. "We continue to see Facebook as the laggard in AI," Windsor wrote. "Targeting video is sensible as it gives it more time to improve its AI before having to apply it to more difficult tasks." The fact that video is a fast-growing, but maturing, medium for digital advertising also means that the time to really address it is now, Windsor wrote. "The app on the TV is just the beginning and we would not be surprised to see this being followed up with premium content taking it into the realm of Netflix ( NFLX ), Hulu, YouTube and Amazon Prime." Facebook, when it reported fourth-quarter earnings on Feb. 2 that blew past expectations, continued to benefit from a surge in advertiser demand, driven by newer ad formats such as video. On the earnings conference call CEO Mark Zuckerberg said, "I see video as a megatrend on the same order as mobile. That's why we're going to keep putting video first across our family of apps and making it easier for people to capture and share video in new ways." Facebook stock was down 0.3% to 133.44 on the stock market today , and still in a buy zone from a breakout last month at 129.37, out of a cup-with-handle base. RELATED: Apple, Facebook, Amazon Earnings Put Focus On FANG Stocks Facebook Still In Early Stages Of Growth Despite Massive Size Facebook Stock Buyback May Signal Slower Growth As Company Matures Mark Zuckerberg posted a long letter touting his vision for Facebook to drive an AI-fueled "global community." (Facebook) 10:31 PM ET Mark Zuckerberg posted a long letter touting his vision for Facebook to drive an AI-fueled "global community." 10:31 PM ET Mark Zuckerberg posted a long letter touting his vision for... In addition to the unveiling of Boeing's 787-10, Trump's appearance at the company's South Carolina plant Friday is expected to include an announcement on the Export-Import Bank. (Boeing) The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association recommends that bond markets shutter on Monday as well. (AP) FANG CEOs Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, Reed Hastings and Larry Page. (AP) Get the latest news, stock quotes and analysis of FANG stocks Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google-parent Alphabet. Get 4 free weeks of the IBD Digital edition plus access to IBD s exclusive market analysis, proprietary stock ratings and interactive tools. Stay on top of the market with IBD s exclusive videos. You will find the latest news, market analysis, and education to help you become a more successful investor. Get the most out of IBD s products and features by learning the CAN SLIM Investing System and staying in sync with the market trend. Notice: Information contained herein is not and should not be construed as an offer, solicitation, or recommendation to buy or sell securities. The information has been obtained from sources we believe to be reliable; however no guarantee is made or implied with respect to its accuracy, timeliness, or completeness. Authors may own the stocks they discuss. The information and content are subject to change without notice. *Real-time prices by Bats®. Volume delayed. Real-time quote and/or trade prices are not sourced from all markets. © 2000-2017 Investor's Business Daily, Inc. All rights reserved