NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- American Express ( AXP ) President of Global Consumer Services, Douglas E. Buckminster, will participate in the Keefe, Bruyette Woods (KBW) Cards, Payments Financial Technology Symposium in New York City, on Monday, February 27, 2017, at 9:40a.m. (ET). Mr. Buckminster will take part in a question and answer session relating to the company’s global consumer and network businesses. American Express Company plans to host its annual Investor Day on Wednesday, March 8, 2017 at 1:00 p.m. (ET). At the meeting, senior executives will discuss key business trends, initiatives and long-term strategies. Speakers are scheduled to include: A live audio webcast of both events will be accessible to the general public through the American Express Investor Relations website at http://ir.americanexpress.com . Presentation materials will be posted on the website prior to the Investor Day meeting and an audio replay will be available on the website following each of the events. About American Express American Express is a global services company, providing customers with access to products, insights and experiences that enrich lives and build business success. Learn more at americanexpress.com and connect with us on facebook.com/americanexpress , foursquare.com/americanexpress , linkedin.com/company/american-express , twitter.com/americanexpress , and youtube.com/americanexpress . Key links to products, services and corporate responsibility information: charge and credit cards , business credit cards , Plenti rewards program , travel services , gift cards , prepaid cards , merchant services , Accertify , corporate card , business travel and corporate responsibility . View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20170214005974/en/ .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;} Mike D: For anyone who doesn't watch Fox News with regularity. Shep Smith has always been anti-Trump. He takes President Trump's attacks on the media very personally. Myself, I find it a little over the top and he's definitely incapable of being anywhere near impartial when he reports on the President but that's not unusual these days. 5.3k