Should you join him? Don't make snap decisions Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! For Immediate Release Chicago, IL - February 10, 2017 - Zacks Value Investor is a podcast hosted weekly by Zacks Stock Strategist Tracey Ryniec. Every week, Tracey will be joined by guests to discuss the hottest investing topics in stocks, bonds and ETFs and how it impacts your life. To listen to the podcast, click here: ( https://www.zacks.com/stock/news/248709/buying-value-stocks-on-the-breakout ) Buying Value Stocks on the Breakout Welcome to Episode #29 of the Value Investor Podcast. Every week, Zacks value stock strategist and the Editor of Zacks Value Investor portfolio , Tracey Ryniec, talks about all things happening in the value stock universe, including her top stock picks. Stocks are again hitting new all-time highs. But unlike in 2016 when everyone was handwringing about valuation, in 2017 investors seem to be less concerned with how expensive the market is. Why is that? Retail and energy stocks are well off their highs. Bank stocks have also pulled back. There are vulnerable sectors so the overall market doesn't feel quite as hot. Tracey took a look, though, to see if there was still value amidst the stocks that are breaking out. She ran a screen that included the Zacks Rank of #1 (Strong Buy) or #2 (Buy), so that there would be rising earnings estimates, and a Zacks Style Score for value of A which means that the company is a value compared to its peers. There were 44 stocks that came across her screen. While that may sound like a lot, the Zacks Rank covers more than 4,000 stocks. 44 stocks is a really small part of the bigger stock universe. A value stock breaking out to new highs, i.e. a value momentum stock, is a rare occurrence. Tracey picked out three stocks from the screen that were her favorite. She avoided the airline stocks, although there were some that made it onto the screen. The airline stocks are one of the few undervalued groups that still have great charts. But she wanted to focus on other areas. Instead, she picked three stocks that were from diverse industries. You might be surprised by what are values right now. 3 Value Stocks Breaking Out to New 52-Week Highs 1. Allstate (NYSE: ALL - Free Report ), the big life, auto and casualty insurer, has a gorgeous 5-year chart. Have you seen it? I know many of you think insurance companies are boring. But I'll take this kind of "boring" all the time. And even with the multi-year breakout in the shares, they are still cheap. Allstate has a forward P/E of just 12.5. 2. Carrols Restaurant Group (NASDAQ: TAST - Free Report ) has had a bumpy 5-year ride but if you were patient, shares have gone from under $4 to above $15 in that time. Earnings are expected to grow 28% in 2017. But is it truly a "value" stock? Tracey digs into the fundamentals. 3. American Express (NYSE: AXP - Free Report ) has been left for dead by investors the last few years but in 2016 it started moving higher again. It has broken out to new 52-week highs and has kept that momentum into 2017. It's cheap, with a forward P/E of just 13.8. Value investors have difficulty in buying on the breakout because they're conditioned to think that value means "breakdown" instead of "breakout." But that's not always true. Don't be afraid to buy the breakout. A stock breaking out means the story is good. Who doesn't want a value stock that investors think has a bright future? Find out more about what Tracey thinks about buying at the 52-week highs in this week's podcast. Want more insights from Tracey? Check out her weekly Value Investor service to receive more in-depth analysis on value companies and see which stocks she thinks are the best bargains now. Click here to learn more. Tracey Ryniec is the Value Stock Strategist for Zacks.com. She is also the Editor of the Insider Trader and Value Investor services. You can follow her on twitter at @TraceyRyniec and she also hosts the Zacks Market Edge Podcast on iTunes. About Zacks Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978. The later formation of the Zacks Rank, a proprietary stock picking system; continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3 to 1 margin. The best way to unlock the profitable stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks Investment Research is through our free daily email newsletter; Profit from the Pros. In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your time! Click here for your free subscription to Profit from the Pros . Get the full Report on ALL - FREE Get the full Report on TAST - FREE Get the full Report on AXP - FREE Follow us on Twitter: https://twitter.com/zacksresearch Join us on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/home.php#/pages/Zacks-Investment-Research/57553657748?ref=ts Zacks Investment Research is under common control with affiliated entities (including a broker-dealer and an investment adviser), which may engage in transactions involving the foregoing securities for the clients of such affiliates. Media Contact Zacks Investment Research 800-767-3771 ext. 9339 support@zacks.com https://www.zacks.com/performance Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Inherent in any investment is the potential for loss. This material is being provided for informational purposes only and nothing herein constitutes investment, legal, accounting or tax advice, or a recommendation to buy, sell or hold a security. No recommendation or advice is being given as to whether any investment is suitable for a particular investor. It should not be assumed that any investments in securities, companies, sectors or markets identified and described were or will be profitable. All information is current as of the date of herein and is subject to change without notice. Any views or opinions expressed may not reflect those of the firm as a whole. Zacks Investment Research does not engage in investment banking, market making or asset management activities of any securities. These returns are from hypothetical portfolios consisting of stocks with Zacks Rank = 1 that were rebalanced monthly with zero transaction costs. These are not the returns of actual portfolios of stocks. The S P 500 is an unmanaged index. Visit https://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release. Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report makeArticleAd(); Allstate Corporation (The) (ALL): Free Stock Analysis Report Carrols Restaurant Group, Inc. (TAST): Free Stock Analysis Report American Express Company (AXP): Free Stock Analysis Report To read this article on Zacks.com click here. The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.