Last year, I bet against banks and got it wrong . This year, however, I ve been bullish , and I m sticking with that call, even though the financial sector has only kept up with the S P 500 so far this year. And I m not the only one. Today, Macquarie s David Konrad and Jack Walsh upgraded Bank of America ( BAC ), arguing that investors should be overweight US Universal Banks. They explain: In our view, investors should be overweight US Universal banks due to the improving interest rate environment , improving global market share in capital markets and potential increases in shareholder distributions given the change in the political landscape in Washington and at the Fed . Our top ideas are Bank of America, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley. We continue to believe JPMorgan Chase is a core holding with strong balance sheet and above peer returns. Moreover, we believe JPMorgan Chase is well positioned to gain from moderately less strict regulations; however, we remain Neutral given we believe greater leverage is captured to this potential with our OP ratings on Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley. In addition, JPMorgan Chase’s valuation appears to more reflect these benefits than peers, and we remain below the Street given high expectations for trading revenues We are upgrading Bank of America to Outperform following our deep dive into its asset sensitivity. In our view, Bank of America provides better-than-peer upside to higher short-term rates, and strong operating leverage is expected to drive a re-valuation in the stock. Bank of America offers one of the more attractive valuations relative to its expected ROTCE, especially considering its outsized benefit to a potential tax cut. Under this scenario, we expect ROTCE to improve by 500bps to ~ 14% by 2018. Shares of Bank of America have dropped 0.8% to $24.40 at 10:54 a.m. today, while Goldman Sachs has declined 0.5% to $249.32, Morgan Stanley has fallen 0.7% to $46.18, and JPMorgan Chase is off 0.3% at $90.34. Error message Be the first to leave a comment on this blog. Earnings reports, corporate strategies and analyst insights are all part of what moves stocks, and they re all covered by the Stocks to Watch blog. We also look at macro issues, investor sentiments and hidden trends that are affecting the market. Stocks to Watch gives you the full picture of the U.S. stock markets, all day long. The blog is written by Ben Levisohn, a former stock trader who has covered financial markets for the Wall Street Journal, Bloomberg and BusinessWeek. Write to Ben at Ben.Levisohn@barrons.com Follow @ben_levisohn // Your email has been sent. An error has occured and your email has not been sent. Please try again .