Share prices of America’s biggest banks have skyrocketed since the U.S. presidential election in early November, but investor optimism is being fuelled by more than just expectations of increasing revenues from rising interest rates, deregulation, and stimulus spending. It turns out that banks have also become a whole lot leaner, having reduced costs close to their all time lows in response to the strains on their profit margins following the global financial crisis, according to the Wall Street Journal. Since the U.S. election, bank stocks, as measured by the KBW Nasdaq Bank Index ( KBWB ), are up 27%, roughly three times more than the S P 500, and several big U.S. banks achieved trading milestones earlier this week. Shares of both Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ( GS ) and J.P. Morgan Chase Co. ( JPM ) hit record highs, while Bank of America Corp. ( BAC ) shares traded in accordance with the banks net worth for the first time in more than eight years. While Trumped-up expectations appear to have ignited the rally in bank shares, the fact that costs are near all-time lows is helping to support the optimism. Last year, the expenses of America’s six biggest banks were down 13% from their 2013 levels, and banks raked in 23 cents of profit per each dollar of revenue compared to just 15 cents five years ago, according to the Journal. (To read more, see: Big US Banks Optimistic Abouth the Future Under Trump .) The following chart from Bloomberg illustrates just how much cost cutting – with the exception of Wells Fargo Co. ( WFC ) – America’s big six achieved last year. Claiming that it wants to cut another $1 billion in expenses by the end of 2017, Morgan Stanley ( MS ) has been moving jobs from high-cost centres like New York and London to lower cost locations like Bangalore, Mumbai and Glasgow, and has closed two North American data centers. According to the journal, employees at the bank now receive five cents less per each dollar of revenue than they did in 2010. Bank of America has been reducing both labor and real estate expenses by opening up smaller completely automated branches where customers interact either with ATMs or with bank employees through video conferencing. While scaling back on labor costs, the bank has also reduced its real estate footprint by “the equivalent of 15 Empire State Buildings,” notes the Journal. (To read more, see: Bank of America Tests Automated Branches .) Much of Goldman Sachs’ cost-reduction plan has involved cutting non-compensation expenses, which fell 44% throughout the fourth quarter of 2016 largely due to a fall in legal settlement costs, real estate costs, and professional fees. The banks non-compensation expenses are currently at their lowest level in ten years. While both Citigroup Inc. ( C ) and J.P. Morgan have shut down operations in various locations and laid-off employees, the latter even decided that it would no longer pay for employees’ BlackBerrys. If those employees owned J.P. Morgan shares prior to the recent rally, they’re probably not too concerned, however. Want to learn how to invest? Delivered twice a week, straight to your inbox.