NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Citi Private Bank announced today that Stephen V. Prostor has joined the New York team as a Private Banker, reporting to Ida Liu, Global Market Manager- Metro NY. In this capacity, Mr. Prostor will concentrate on providing wealth management services to New York based clients with a focus on the Financial Sponsor market. Mr. Prostor joins a growing team of private bankers servicing the New York City area for the firm. “We continue to see increasing share of wallet from our New York Ultra High Net Worth clients. The Financial Sponsor client segment in particular is one of our fastest growing, and this strategic shift allows us to dedicate the resources necessary to meet demand. Stephen’s appointment and background underscores our steadfast commitment to servicing our New York-based clients and allows us to expand on the strong foundation we’ve built in this region,” said Ms. Liu. Mr. Prostor was previously Head of Citi Private Bank Sponsor Finance in North America and Head of Syndications for the Private Bank. He was responsible for managing the origination, structuring, underwriting, syndication and portfolio management activities of Citi Private Bank’s global subscription lending business in North America. Prior to joining Citi Private Bank, Mr. Prostor spent 18 years as a corporate banker with PNC Financial Services, HSBC Holdings and Citi, including 10 years covering mid-market private equity sponsors to source portfolio company financing opportunities. He received his Bachelor of Science from Miami University in Oxford, Ohio. “Leveraging my origination and structuring experience from previous roles allows me to bring fresh insight and innovative finance strategies to our clients. The New York City metropolitan area is a critical area of focus for Citi Private Bank with many Financial Sponsor clients based here. I look forward to continuing to work with those clients in addition to serving as a trusted advisor to a broader subset of clients, bringing them the global access and resources of the Citi network,” said Mr. Prostor. Citi Private Bank advises some of the world's wealthiest, most influential individuals and families. With $374 billion in global assets under management, the franchise includes 48 offices in 16 countries, serving clients across 139 countries. The firm offers clients products and services covering capital markets, managed investments, portfolio management, trust and estate planning, investment finance, banking and aircraft finance, as well as art and sports advisory and finance. About Citi Citi, the leading global bank, has approximately 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 160 countries and jurisdictions. Citi provides consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, transaction services, and wealth management. Additional information may be found at www.citigroup.com | Twitter: @Citi | YouTube: www.youtube.com/citi | Blog: http://blog.citigroup.com | Facebook: www.facebook.com/citi | LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/company/citi . View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20170216005769/en/ .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;} Cmdr: It’s time to get Russia out of Americas White House!
Trump and ALL of his bunch have to go! 476