Wells Fargo ( WFC ) has gained ~23% since the US elections on November 8, 2016. Analysts believe that WFC stock has attained full valuation and doesn’t have much upside left. Despite an outlook for higher interest rates, fewer regulations, and lower taxes, analysts downgraded Wells Fargo due to its expensive valuations. Three analysts rated Wells Fargo a “strong buy” while 11 rated it a “buy.” Wells Fargo has received 14 “hold” ratings, five “sell” ratings, and one “strong sell” rating. WFC has a 12-month price target of $57.92, indicating a 2.8% return potential. In a post-earnings note, Morgan Stanley ( MS ) reiterated its “buy” rating on Wells Fargo, and Guggenheim downgraded it to “neutral.” Jefferies also reiterated its “hold” rating on WFC while CLSA rated it “outperform.” Argus Research’s director of product strategy, Stephen Biggar, cut Wells Fargo’s rating to a “hold” following its lackluster 4Q16 earnings. In a note to investors, he commented, “We are downgrading Wells Fargo Co. to HOLD from BUY following the company’s 4Q earnings report and the recent sharp increase in the share price. “WFC shares have more than recovered from their September 2016 selloff, which followed the revelation that bank employees had opened numerous fraudulent accounts to meet aggressive sales goals. In particular, bank ( XLF ) ( JPM ) employees opened new accounts with customer funds without disclosing this to customers. “For a bank that largely sailed through the financial crisis, and that had maintained a far better reputation than most peers, the scandal is clearly a black eye. The practices were widespread enough to call the bank’s culture into question. “Along with the 4Q results, the company noted a decline in visits to retail branches, which we believe will have a lingering effect on account openings. There have also been reports of fallout in other WFC businesses, such as wholesale banking, where some municipalities have temporarily suspended activity with the company.” Quote data by Xignite