Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! The strong recovery in global FICC (fixed income, currencies and commodities) trading activity over the second half of 2016 resulted in Goldman's FICC trading desk contributing almost 25% of the investment bank's total revenues for the year compared to 21% in 2015. The FICC trading desks at each of the five largest U.S. banks reported an increase in their share of the bank's total revenues year-on-year. Notably, these operations were responsible for 16-19% of 2016 revenues for the diversified banking giants Citigroup and JPMorgan. To put this in perspective, JPMorgan's FICC trading revenues were double what Goldman reported for year, but its diversified nature meant that the bank also reported total revenues that were more than three times the figure for Goldman. This highlights the sheer magnitude of FICC trading operations at JPMorgan and Citigroup. While FICC trading revenues are expected to remain upbeat in 2017, we expect their share in the top lines of Citigroup, JPMorgan as well as Bank of America to decline. This is because improving interest rates should boost net interest revenues for their retail and commercial banking divisions at a faster rate than FICC trading revenues are set to grow. See the links below for more information and analysis about the 5 largest U.S. investment banks: Notes: 1) The purpose of these analyses is to help readers focus on a few important things. We hope such lean communication sparks thinking, and encourages readers to comment / ask questions on the comment section 2) Figures mentioned are approximate values to help our readers remember the key concepts more intuitively. For precise figures, please refer to the full Trefis analysis for Goldman Sachs | JPMorgan | Morgan Stanley | Bank of America | Citigroup View Interactive Institutional Research (Powered by Trefis): Global Large Cap | U.S. Mid Small Cap | European Large Mid Cap More Trefis Research The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.