Quotes Info Enter Symbol(s): e.g.
YHOO, ^DJI Symbol
Lookup | Financial
Search CA SEC
Filings for
CA Form
10-Q on
25-Jan-2017 All
Recent SEC Filings Show all filings for CA, INC. Form
10-Q for
CA, INC. 25-Jan-2017 Quarterly Report Item 2: MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Form 10-Q) contains certain forward-looking
information relating to CA, Inc. (which we refer to as the Company, Registrant, CA Technologies, CA, we, our or us ), that is based on
the beliefs of, and assumptions made by, our management as well as information
currently available to management. When used in this Form 10-Q, the words believes, plans, anticipates, expects, estimates, targets and
similar expressions relating to the future are intended to identify
forward-looking information. Forward-looking information includes, for example,
not only the statements relating to the future made in this Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD A),
but also statements relating to the future that appear in other parts of this
Form 10-Q. This forward-looking information reflects our current views with
respect to future events and is subject to certain risks, uncertainties and
assumptions. The declaration and payment of future dividends by the Company is subject to the
determination of the Company's Board of Directors (the Board), in its sole
discretion, after considering various factors, including the Company's financial
condition, historical and forecasted operating results, and available cash flow,
as well as any applicable laws and contractual covenants and any other relevant
factors. The Company's practice regarding payment of dividends may be modified
at any time and from time to time. Repurchases under the Company's stock repurchase program may be made from time
to time, subject to market conditions and other factors, in the open market,
through solicited or unsolicited privately negotiated transactions or otherwise.
The program does not obligate the Company to acquire any particular amount of
common stock, and it may be modified or suspended at any time at the Company's
discretion. Table of Contents A number of important factors could cause actual results or events to differ
materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including: the ability to achieve success in the Company's business strategy by, among
other things, ensuring that any new offerings address the needs of a rapidly
changing market while not adversely affecting the demand for the Company's
traditional products or the Company's profitability to an extent greater than
anticipated, enabling the Company's sales force to accelerate growth of sales to
new customers and expand sales with existing customers, including sales outside
of the Company's renewal cycle and to a broadening set of purchasers outside of
traditional information technology operations (with such growth and expansion at
levels sufficient to offset any decline in revenue and/or sales in the Company's
Mainframe Solutions segment and in certain mature product lines in the Company's
Enterprise Solutions segment), effectively managing the strategic shift in the
Company's business model to develop more easily installed software, provide
additional Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) offerings and refocus the Company's
professional services and education engagements on those engagements that are
connected to new product sales, without affecting the Company's financial
performance to an extent greater than anticipated, and effectively managing the
Company's pricing and other go-to-market strategies, as well as improving the
Company's brand, technology and innovation awareness in the marketplace; the
failure to innovate or adapt to technological changes and introduce new software
products and services in a timely manner; competition in product and service
offerings and pricing; the ability of the Company's products to remain
compatible with ever-changing operating environments, platforms or third party
products; global economic factors or political events beyond the Company's
control and other business and legal risks associated with non-U.S. operations;
the failure to expand partner programs and sales of the Company's solutions by
the Company's partners; the ability to retain and attract qualified
professionals; general economic conditions and credit constraints, or
unfavorable economic conditions in a particular region, business or industry
sector; the ability to successfully integrate acquired companies and products
into the Company's existing business; risks associated with sales to government
customers; breaches of the Company's data center, network, as well as the
Company's software products, and the IT environments of the Company's vendors
and customers; the ability to adequately manage, evolve and protect the
Company's information systems, infrastructure and processes; the failure to
renew license transactions on a satisfactory basis; fluctuations in foreign
exchange rates; discovery of errors or omissions in the Company's software
products or documentation and potential product liability claims; the failure to
protect the Company's intellectual property rights and source code; access to
software licensed from third parties; risks associated with the use of software
from open source code sources; third-party claims of intellectual property
infringement or royalty payments; fluctuations in the number, terms and duration
of the Company's license agreements, as well as the timing of orders from
customers and channel partners; events or circumstances that would require the
Company to record an impairment charge relating to the Company's goodwill or
capitalized software and other intangible assets balances; potential tax
liabilities; changes in market conditions or the Company's credit ratings;
changes in generally accepted accounting principles; the failure to effectively
execute the Company's workforce reductions, workforce rebalancing and facilities
consolidations; successful and secure outsourcing of various functions to third
parties; and other factors described more fully in this Form 10-Q and the
Company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Should one
or more of these risks or uncertainties occur, or should our assumptions prove
incorrect, actual results may vary materially from the forward-looking
information described in this Form 10-Q as believed, planned, anticipated,
expected, estimated, targeted or similarly identified. The Company does not
intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as otherwise required
by law. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. This MD A is
provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, the
Company's financial statements and the accompanying notes to the financial
statements. References in this Form 10-Q to fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016 are to
the Company's fiscal years ending on March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. OVERVIEW CA Technologies is a global leader in software solutions enabling customers to
plan, develop, manage and secure applications and enterprise environments across
distributed, cloud, mobile and mainframe platforms. Most of the Global Fortune
500, as well as many government agencies around the world, rely on CA to help
manage their increasingly dynamic and complex environments. We have a broad portfolio of software solutions that we use to execute our
business strategy, including enabling our customers to gain a competitive
advantage in the Application Economy. We organize our offerings into Enterprise
Solutions, Mainframe Solutions and Services operating segments. Enterprise Solutions segment includes products that are designed for distributed
and cloud computing environments and run on industry standard servers. Within
Enterprise Solutions, our areas of focus include: • Agile Management enables customers to more effectively plan and manage the
software development process and the business of IT service delivery. Our
solutions enable customers to improve delivery time on large projects,
reduce costs and optimize resources. Table of Contents • DevOps is adjacent to Agile Management and comprises a range of solutions
that allow customers to efficiently deliver and manage applications and IT
infrastructure. With our portfolio of solutions, customers can reduce the
delivery time of new applications, increase the frequency of new releases
and dramatically improve quality. • Security includes a comprehensive set of solutions to address the growing
concern across all enterprises and organizations regarding external and
internal threats to their environments and the critical data they contain.
Our identity-centric security portfolio allows customers to manage
identities and regulate access from the device to the data center,
providing a complete, end-to-end, multi-channel security solution. Mainframe Solutions are designed for the IBM z Systems™ mainframe platform,
which runs many of our largest customers' mission-critical business
applications, with a focus on lowering cost per transaction, while increasing
business agility, security and compliance. Within Mainframe Solutions, our areas
of focus include: • Application Development solutions help enable agile development processes,
modernize applications and enable collaboration across the mobile to
mainframe teams. • Databases and Database Management solutions help customers manage the
growth and increasing complexity of data and allow them to address their
ever-evolving data management needs and enable web and mobile access of
data. • Security Compliance solutions manage risk and ensure regulatory
compliance across the enterprise with modern tools. Our solutions reduce
risk from unauthorized access, secure mainframe assets, monitor instances
that affect compliance and help discover sensitive data. Our solutions
secure data at rest and in motion, across the enterprise. • Systems and Operations Management portfolio provides customers with a
unified view of their z Systems performance, including their applications,
middleware, networks, systems, storage and data. Services helps customers reach their IT and business goals primarily by enabling
the rapid implementation and adoption of our Mainframe and Enterprise solutions.
Our professional services team consists of experienced professionals who provide
a variety of services, such as consulting, implementation, application
management services, education and support services, to both commercial and
government customers. In fiscal 2016, as a result of our Rally acquisition,
Agile coaches, whose primary focus is training customers on the implementation
of the Agile software development methodology, were incorporated into the
Services segment. Our goal is to be the world's leading independent software provider for IT
management and security solutions that help organizations and enterprises plan,
develop, manage, and secure modern software environments across mainframe,
distributed, cloud and mobile platforms. To accomplish this, key elements of our
strategy include: • Drive organic innovation. Our product development strategy is built around
key growth areas, where we are focused on innovating and delivering
differentiated products and solutions across both distributed and
mainframe. A key element of our organic innovation approach is the broad
adoption of the Agile methodology to govern our software development
process, which we believe will improve our product development
time-to-market, quality and relevance, and support our customer success
initiatives. • Incubate technology for next generation products. We are researching and
dedicating resources to the development of emerging technologies that are
logical extensions of our core areas of focus. We are working on
opportunities in areas such as containers, data analytics, big data and
open source, some of which may become enhancements or extensions of our
current product portfolio and others may evolve to new product categories. • Pursue new business models and expanded routes to market. While our
traditional on-premise software delivery remains core to many enterprise
customers, we see cloud-based and try-and-buy models as increasingly
attractive for our customers. • Expand relationships with our global customer base and address
opportunities with new and underserved customers. We are focused on
maintaining and expanding the strong relationships with our established
customer base, and will proactively target growth with other potential
customers that we do not currently serve. In parallel, we are seeking to
broaden our customer base to new buyers in geographic regions we have
underserved. The emerging roles of Chief Information Security Officers and
Chief Development Officers align with the shifts we are driving across our
portfolio to meet the needs of speed and agility. • Execute strategic and disciplined technology acquisitions. We intend to
supplement our organic innovation efforts with key technology acquisitions
that are within or adjacent to our core areas of focus. We conduct a
thorough acquisition process, which includes build vs. buy analysis and
opportunity identification, detailed business case modeling, rigorous due
diligence and extensive integration, to fully realize the value of our
acquisitions. Table of Contents We offer our solutions through our direct sales force and indirectly through our
partners. We remain focused on strengthening relationships with our core
customers and partners - approximately our top 500 accounts, which we refer to
as our Platinum accounts - through product leadership, account management and
a differentiated customer experience. We are working to accelerate the velocity
of our sales transactions by dedicating sales resources and deploying additional
solutions to address opportunities to sell to new enterprises and to expand our
relationship with existing non-Platinum customers - which we refer to as our Named and Growth/Partners (or Partner-led) customers. Named customers are
large potential customers with whom we currently do not have a strong presence
and where a competitor often has an established relationship. Growth/Partners
customers are mid-size potential customers with whom we currently do not have a
strong presence and generally address through partners. Additionally, we have
implemented broad-based business initiatives to drive continued improvement in
sales execution. We are continuing to shift to a more product-driven sales
approach, using real-time data and intelligence to drive on-going evolution of
our go-to-market strategy towards the highest potential and highest-yielding
markets. We have sharpened our focus and processes to better reach new customers to drive
higher velocity and a broadening customer mix. Our marketing and sales
organizations are utilizing common systems and analytics to initiate and respond
to market opportunities, optimize resources, maximize efficiency and drive
awareness and consideration of the CA brand and portfolio capabilities across
our broad base of customers and prospects. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY A summary of key results for the third quarter of fiscal 2017 compared with the
third quarter of fiscal 2016 is as follows: Revenue • Total revenue declined $27 million due to decreases in subscription and
maintenance revenue, professional services revenue and software fees and
other revenue. There was an unfavorable foreign exchange effect of $5
million for the third quarter of fiscal 2017. • We currently expect revenue for fiscal 2017 to be consistent compared with
fiscal 2016. We currently expect an unfavorable foreign exchange effect of
less than one percent on revenue for fiscal 2017. Bookings • Total bookings increased primarily due to an increase in enterprise
solutions renewals, partially offset by decreases in mainframe solutions
renewals and enterprise solutions new product sales. • Renewal bookings increased by a percentage in the mid-single digits
primarily due to an increase in enterprise solutions renewals, partially
offset by a decrease in mainframe solutions renewals due to the timing of
our renewal portfolio. • Total new product sales decreased by a percentage in the mid-single digits
primarily due to a decrease in enterprise solutions new product sales.
Enterprise solutions new product sales decreased by a percentage in the
high single digits primarily due to a lower level of new sales associated
with our Service Management product and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in
new sales of our Privileged Access Management (PAM) product. These
decreases were partially offset by higher new sales of our API Management
and Continuous Delivery products. Mainframe solutions new product sales
were consistent compared with the year-ago period. • We expect fiscal 2017 renewals to increase by a percentage in the high
teens compared with fiscal 2016. Expenses • Operating expenses decreased primarily due to favorable foreign exchange
and a decline in legal settlement expense included within other (gains)
expenses, net. In addition, there was a decrease in amortization of other
intangible assets and internally developed software products, and a
decrease in commission expense as a result of the decline in total new
product sales. These decreases in operating expenses were partially offset
by an increase in personnel-related costs as a result of severance actions
during the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Income taxes • We anticipate a fiscal 2017 effective tax rate between 28% and 29%. Diluted income per common share from continuing operations • Diluted income per common share from continuing operations decreased to
$0.50 from $0.52 primarily due to an increase in income tax expense,
partially offset by an increase in income from continuing operations
before income taxes. Segment results • Mainframe Solutions revenue decreased primarily due to insufficient
revenue from prior period new sales to offset the decline in revenue
contribution from renewals. Mainframe Solutions operating margin was
consistent compared with the year-ago period. Table of Contents • Enterprise Solutions revenue decreased primarily due to a decrease in
revenue recognized on an upfront basis. Enterprise Solutions operating
margin increased primarily due to an overall decrease in operating
expenses. • Services revenue decreased primarily due to a decline in professional
services engagements from prior periods. This decline in professional
services engagements is a result of several factors including our products
being easier to install and manage, an increase in the use of partners for
services engagements and the completion of non-strategic projects during
previous periods. Operating margin for Services decreased primarily due to
an overall decline in professional services revenue and an increase in
personnel-related costs as a result of severance actions during the third
quarter of fiscal 2017. Cash flows from continuing operations • Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was
$517 million, representing an increase of $185 million. The increase in
net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to an increase
in cash collections from billings of $158 million mainly from higher
single installment collections of $106 million, a decrease in vendor
disbursements and payroll of $17 million and a decrease in other
disbursements, net of $14 million. QUARTERLY UPDATE • In October 2016, the Company acquired BlazeMeter Ltd. (BlazeMeter), a
privately-held provider of open source-based continuous application
performance testing. BlazeMeter will integrate with the Company's
continuous delivery solutions to further improve testing efficiency and
accelerate the deployment of applications. • In November 2016, the Company announced that the Board appointed Kieran J.
McGrath to serve as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
of the Company, effective immediately. Mr. McGrath had most recently
served as the Company's Senior Vice President and interim Chief Financial
Officer. • In December 2016, the Company announced that it signed a definitive
agreement to acquire Automic Holding GmbH (Automic), a provider of
business automation software that automates IT and business processes. The
Company completed the acquisition of Automic in January 2017. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Management uses several quantitative performance indicators to assess our
financial results and condition. Following is a summary of the principal
quantitative performance indicators that management uses to review performance: Third Quarter of Fiscal 2017 2016 Change Percentage Change (dollars in millions)
Total revenue $ 1,007 $ 1,034 $ (27 ) (3 )%
Income from continuing operations $ 208 $ 219 $ (11 ) (5 )%
Net cash provided by operating
activities - continuing operations $ 517 $ 332 $ 185 56 %
Total bookings $ 1,258 $ 1,242 $ 16 1 %
Subscription and maintenance bookings $ 1,038 $ 1,013 $ 25 2 %
Weighted average subscription and
maintenance license
agreement duration in years 3.32 3.76 (0.44 ) (12 )% Table of Contents First Nine Months of Fiscal 2017 2016 Change Percentage Change (dollars in millions)
Total revenue $ 3,024 $ 3,016 $ 8 - %
Income from continuing operations $ 618 $ 598 $ 20 3 %
Net cash provided by operating
activities - continuing operations $ 620 $ 563 $ 57 10 %
Total bookings $ 3,340 $ 3,287 $ 53 2 %
Subscription and maintenance bookings $ 2,742 $ 2,730 $ 12 - %
Weighted average subscription and
maintenance license
agreement duration in years 3.94 4.00 (0.06 ) (2 )% Change Change December 31, From Fiscal December 31, From Prior 2016 March 31, 2016 Year End 2015 Year Quarter (in millions)
Cash and cash
equivalents $ 2,828 $ 2,812 $ 16 $ 2,353 $ 475
Total debt (1) $ 1,950 $ 1,953 $ (3 ) $ 1,955 $ (5 )
Total expected future
cash collections
from committed contracts
(2) $ 4,992 $ 4,520 $ 472 $ 4,768 $ 224
Total revenue backlog
(2) $ 7,005 $ 6,829 $ 176 $ 6,800 $ 205
Total current revenue
backlog (2) $ 2,994 $ 3,113 $ (119 ) $ 3,030 $ (36 ) (1) Total debt at December 31, 2015 has been adjusted to reflect the adoption of
Accounting Standards Update No. 2015-03, Simplifying the Presentation of
Debt Issuance Costs (Topic 835). Refer to Note 1, Significant Accounting
Policies, of our 2016 Form 10-K for additional information. (2) Refer to the discussion in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of
this MD A for additional information on expected future cash collections
from committed contracts and revenue backlog. Analyses of our performance indicators shown above and our segment performance
can be found in the Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital
Resources sections of this MD A. Total Revenue: Total revenue is the amount of revenue recognized during the
reporting period from the sale of license, maintenance, SaaS and professional
services agreements. Amounts recognized as subscription and maintenance revenue
are recognized ratably over the term of the agreement. Professional services
revenue is generally recognized as the services are performed or recognized on a
ratable basis over the term of the related software arrangement. Software fees
and other revenue generally represents license fee revenue recognized at the
inception of a license agreement (upfront basis) and also includes our SaaS
revenue, which is recognized as services are provided. Subscription and Maintenance Revenue: Subscription and maintenance revenue is
the amount of revenue recognized ratably during the reporting period from: (i) subscription license agreements that were in effect during the period,
generally including maintenance that is bundled with and not separately
identifiable from software usage fees or product sales, (ii) maintenance
agreements associated with providing customer technical support and access to
software fixes and upgrades that are separately identifiable from software usage
fees or product sales, and (iii) license agreements bundled with additional
products, maintenance or professional services for which vendor specific
objective evidence (VSOE) has not been established. These amounts include the
sale of products directly by us, as well as by distributors and volume partners,
value-added resellers and exclusive representatives to end-users, where the
contracts incorporate the right for end-users to receive unspecified future
software products, and other contracts entered into in close proximity or
contemplation of such agreements. The vast majority of our subscription and
maintenance revenue in any particular reporting period comes from contracts
signed in prior periods, generally ranging in duration from three to five years.
Total Bookings: Total bookings, or sales, includes the incremental value of all
subscription, maintenance and professional services contracts and software fees
and other contracts entered into during the reporting period and is generally
reflective of the amount of products and services during the period that our
customers have agreed to purchase from us. License fees for bookings attributed
to sales of software products for which revenue is recognized on an upfront
basis is reflected in Software fees and other in our Condensed Consolidated
Statements of Operations, while the maintenance portion is reflected in Subscription and maintenance in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of
Operations. Our SaaS bookings are recognized as revenue in Software fees and
other, generally ratably over the term of the SaaS arrangement, rather than
upfront. Table of Contents Our management looks within total bookings at renewal bookings, which we define
as bookings attributable to the renewable value of a prior contract (i.e., the
. . . Add
CA to Portfolio Set Alert Email to a
Friend Get SEC Filings for Another Symbol: Symbol Lookup Quotes Info for
CA - All Recent SEC Filings Copyright 2017 Yahoo! Inc.
All rights reserved. Privacy Policy - Terms of Service SEC
Filing data and information provided by EDGAR Online,
Inc.
(1-800-416-6651). All information provided "as is"
for informational purposes
only, not intended for trading purposes or advice.
Neither Yahoo! nor any of
independent providers is liable for any informational
errors, incompleteness,
or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on
information contained
herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not
to redistribute the
information found therein.  