Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! American depository receipts of Asian stocks were trading 0.45% higher at 151.21 on the Bank of New York Mellon Asia ADR Index on Thursday. In North Asia, the gainers were led by Korean steel company POSCO ( PKX ), which surged 9.4%, followed by China Digital TV Holding ( STV ), a provider of conditional access ( CA ) systems, which rose 3.7%. Telecommunications company China Unicom ( CHU ), and Japanese financial holding company Nomura ( NMR ), were up 3.4% each. The decliners in North Asia were led by marketing and branding company Acorn (ATV), and real estate company GDS Holdings (GDS), which fell 2.1% each. They were followed by LG Display (LPL), which makes thin-film transistor liquid crystal displays, and internet service provider Internet Initiative Japan (IIJI), which dropped 2% and 1.9% respectively. In South Asia, the gainers were led by IT services firm SIFY Technologies (SIFY), which rose 1.1%. SIFY was followed by Indonesian telecommunications company Telekomunikasi Indonesia (TLK), and direct-to-home video provider Videocon d2h (VDTH), which edged up 0.1% each. Philippines telecommunications provider PLDT (PHI) led the decliners in South Asia, falling 1.2%, followed by automaker Tata Motors (TTM), which lost 0.6%. Pharmaceutical company Dr. Reddy's Laboratories (RDY), and HDFC Bank (HDB) were off 0.3% each. The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Copyright (C) 2016 MTNewswires.com. All rights reserved. Unauthorized reproduction is strictly prohibited. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.