Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! Here are 5 stocks added to the Zacks Rank #5 (Strong Sell) List today: Brookfield Renewable Partners L.P. BEP owns a portfolio of renewable power generating facilities. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for its current year earnings has been revised 5.1% downward over the last 30 days. CA, Inc. CA provides information technology (IT) management software and solutions that help organizations plan, develop, manage, and secure applications and IT infrastructure in the United States and internationally. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for its current year earnings has declined 3.7% over the last 30 days. China Biologic Products, Inc. CBPO engages in the research, development, manufacture, and sale of human plasma-based biopharmaceutical products to hospitals and inoculation centers in the People's Republic of China. It has seen the Zacks Consensus Estimate for its current year earnings being revised 0.6% downward over the last 30 days. Columbus McKinnon Corporation CMCO designs, manufactures, and markets material handling products for various commercial and industrial end-user markets in the United States, Europe, Canada, and internationally. The Zacks Consensus Estimate revision for its current year earnings was a negative of 10.4% over the last 30 days. Encore Capital Group, Inc . ECPG provides debt recovery solutions for consumers and property owners across a range of financial assets worldwide. The Zacks Consensus Estimate for its current year earnings has moved 1% lower over the last 30 days. View the entire Zacks Rank #5 List . Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report makeArticleAd(); CA Inc. (CA): Get Free Report Columbus McKinnon Corporation (CMCO): Free Stock Analysis Report China Biologic Products, Inc. (CBPO): Free Stock Analysis Report Encore Capital Group Inc (ECPG): Free Stock Analysis Report Brookfield Renewable Partners L.P. (BEP): Free Stock Analysis Report To read this article on Zacks.com click here. Zacks Investment Research The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.