Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! American depository receipts of Asian stocks were trading 0.26% higher at 149.09 on the Bank of New York Mellon Asia ADR Index on Tuesday. In North Asia, the gainers were led by internet service provider Internet Initiative Japan ( IIJI ), which surged 8.7%, followed by China Digital TV Holding ( STV ), a provider of conditional access ( CA ) systems to China, which rose 4.6%. They were followed by solar park operator Sky Solar Holdings Ltd. ( SKYS ), and entertainment and electronics giant Sony ( SNE ), which were up 2.9% and 2.7% respectively. The decliners in North Asia were led by online game developers Changyou.com (CYOU), and The9 (NCTY), which shed 6.2% and 4.4% respectively. They were followed by ChinaCache (CCIH), a provider of content delivery network and cloud computing, down 3%, and China Xiniya Fashion (XNY), a supplier of men's business casual apparel in China, which fell 2%. In South Asia, the gainers were led by IT services firm SIFY Technologies (SIFY), and WNS Holdings (WNS), a provider of business process management services, which dropped 2.2% and 1.5% respectively. They were followed by HDFC Bank (HDB), up 0.3%, and Indonesian telecommunications provider Telekomunikasi Indonesia (TLK), up 0.2%. Direct-to-home video company Videocon d2h (VDTH) led the decliners in South Asia, falling 4.7%, followed by IT company Infosys (INFY), which was off 0.9%. Natural resources firm Vedanta (VEDL) was down 0.9%, while IT group Wipro (WIT) moved 0.5% lower. The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Copyright (C) 2016 MTNewswires.com. All rights reserved. Unauthorized reproduction is strictly prohibited. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.