NEW YORK SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- CA Technologies ( CA ) today announced it has been named an “ Overall Leader” in Adaptive Authentication in the recently released Leadership Compass report from KuppingerCole, a leading analyst firm for identity and access management. CA Advanced Authentication was evaluated for the report, which assessed solutions focused on adaptive authentication — the process of gathering additional attributes about users and their environments and evaluating the attributes in the context of risk-based policies. “CA Advanced Authentication is quite flexible: it is available as a standalone product, but also integrates with CA’s and other IAM vendors’ products. It can be deployed on-premises or in the cloud, where it is fully multi-tenant,” John Tolbert, lead analyst at KuppingerCole, wrote in the report. “With a risk engine that analyzes up to 200 risk factors, and a self-learning user behavior profiling capability to facilitate continuous authentication, CA Advanced Authentication is a clear pick for shortlists when looking for an adaptive authentication solution.” In the “ Leadership Compass: Adaptive Authentication ”* report, KuppingerCole calculated leaders in four categories: innovation, market presence, product and “overall.” Overall leaders were determined based on a combined rating of innovation, market presence and product. In the product segment, CA received the highest scores of “strong positive” or “positive” for security, functionality, integration, interoperability and usability. “We’re seeing significant and growing demand for adaptive and continuous authentication,” said Mordecai Rosen, senior vice president and Security business general manager, CA Technologies. "This next generation of analytics-powered authentication is the key component to a future without passwords.” CA Technologies at RSA Conference 2017 Visit CA Technologies in booth #3409 during RSA Conference Feb. 13 – 17 to get your security superhero identity: Captain Identity, Access Avenger, Data Breach Guardian or Agent Security. Use that identity to see CA’s integrated and interactive identity and access management demos, including: CA Identity Service , CA Single Sign-On , CA Advanced Authentication , CA Privileged Access Manager and CA Identity Suite . For more information, please download the report and visit CA Security Solutions . * KuppingerCole, “Leadership Compass: Adaptive Authentication,” by John Tolbert , February 2017 About CA Technologies CA Technologies ( CA ) creates software that fuels transformation for companies and enables them to seize the opportunities of the application economy. Software is at the heart of every business in every industry. From planning, to development, to management and security, CA is working with companies worldwide to change the way we live, transact, and communicate – across mobile, private and public cloud, distributed and mainframe environments. Learn more at www.ca.com . Follow CA Technologies Legal Notices Copyright © 2017 CA, Inc. All Rights Reserved. All trademarks, trade names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies. View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20170213005170/en/ .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;} Emerson: Hopefully trumptards will reap what they sow when toxic chemicals are dumped into rural America's streams & rivers. 15