BREAKING:  Dow, S P 500 Stay Down; Nasdaq Inches Into Positive Ground Need to register? Current subscribers register here . Boeing may find it easier to sell 787 Dreamliners from its factory in South Carolina if President Trump approves funding for the Export-Import Bank. (Boeing) The Export Import Bank might have full lending powers again as President Trump is expected to make an announcement about the agency at Boeing 's ( BA ) factory in South Carolina on Friday. The federal export credit agency was closed for six months after its charter expired on June 30, 2015, before opening back up with limited authority. Boeing, General Electric ( GE ), Caterpillar ( CAT ) and other beneficiaries have been pushing for re-establishing a quorum on the bank's board allowing it to make deals greater than $10 million. Boeing shares ticked up 0.5% to 169.30 on the stock market today . GE shares inched up 0.2% to 30.35. Caterpillar shares climbed 1% to 99.02. In the past few years, the bank helped Boeing sell its 787 Dreamliners to India, Poland and Ethiopia, and GE sell its trains to Pakistan. Caterpillar also relies on the bank to sell its heavy equipment overseas. A Boeing spokesperson told Bloomberg that without the bank, U.S. firms are at a "significant competitive disadvantage" vs. rivals overseas like Airbus ( EADSY ). The bank only authorized $5 billion in financing in fiscal 2016, down from $20 billion in 2014. It was started 80 years ago in response to the Great Depression and helps facilitate foreign companies' efforts to buy U.S. goods. Boeing is the largest beneficiary, with 40% of all authorizations in 2014 going to the aerospace giant, according to George Mason University's Mercatus Center analysts, who were quoted in a Bloomberg story. Democrats are the bank's biggest supporters and President Obama wanted to expand its lending limit from $140 billion to $160 billion. Trump had initially been opposed to the Ex-Im Bank but Boeing Chief Executive Dennis Muilenburg may have swayed Trump as the two have had several talks after Trump blasted the costs of Boeing's Air Force One contract. Trump's support of the bank would go against Republican members in Congress who believe the bank is crony capitalism set to favor big companies with their hands in politics. Delta Air Lines ' ( DAL ) former CEO Richard Anderson was an outspoken opponent of the bank during his time at the airline, arguing that the Ex-Im Bank helped subsidize orders to wealthy Middle Eastern carriers like Dubai's Emirates with U.S. taxpayer dollars. Airbus ticked up less than 0.3% to 17.52. Delta tacked on 2.6% to 51.17. RELATED: Boeing Backs U.S.-China Trade As Trump Protectionism Looms A defense analyst said that while Lockheed currently doesn't have any grounds for legal action, if a future competition pitted its F-35C against an advanced Boeing F/A-Super Hornet, then Lockheed could have grounds for a bid protest. (Lockheed Martin) 11:56 AM ET President Trump's call to the F-35 program officer with Boeing CEO last month could give Lockheed Martin grounds for protest... 11:56 AM ET President Trump's call to the F-35 program officer with Boeing... The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association recommends that bond markets shutter on Monday as well. (AP) FANG CEOs Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, Reed Hastings and Larry Page. (AP) Find the broker that's right for you with IBD's annual list of the Best Online Brokers. Get 4 free weeks of the IBD Digital edition plus access to IBD s exclusive market analysis, proprietary stock ratings and interactive tools. Stay on top of the market with IBD s exclusive videos. You will find the latest news, market analysis, and education to help you become a more successful investor. Get the most out of IBD s products and features by learning the CAN SLIM Investing System and staying in sync with the market trend. Notice: Information contained herein is not and should not be construed as an offer, solicitation, or recommendation to buy or sell securities. The information has been obtained from sources we believe to be reliable; however no guarantee is made or implied with respect to its accuracy, timeliness, or completeness. Authors may own the stocks they discuss. The information and content are subject to change without notice. *Real-time prices by Bats®. Volume delayed. Real-time quote and/or trade prices are not sourced from all markets. © 2000-2017 Investor's Business Daily, Inc. All rights reserved