Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! Machinery company Barnes Group Inc. B is set to release fourth-quarter 2016 results on Feb 17, before the market opens. makeArticleAd(); The company posted better-than-expected results in two of the four trailing quarters, while recording in-line results in one and lagging in the other. Average earnings surprise was a positive 0.92%. Over the last one month, the company's shares increased 1.66%, underperforming the gain of 4.16% recorded by the Zacks categorized Machinery General Industrial industry. Let us see how things are shaping up for Barnes Group this quarter. Factors to Influence Q4 Results We believe that Barnes Group's operations are sensitive to global headwinds, including those arising from soft commodity prices, poor economic conditions in some developed and developing nations and unfavorable foreign currency movements. For 2016, the company anticipates 1% negative impact from forex woes. Also, the company's operations are affected by the level of industrial production (which measures the level of output from manufacturing, mining and utilities sectors) in the U.S. In the fourth quarter, industrial production in the country fell 0.6% from the year-ago quarter. We believe that weak industrial activities as well as global economic uncertainties might have adversely impacted Barnes Group's performances and its overall profitability in the quarter. Moreover, the company's growth momentum might get a setback from regulatory issues in the aerospace business and stiff competition in the industry. For 2016, the company predicts organic revenue growth to be flat year over year. Despite these headwinds, we believe that Barnes Group might have benefitted from its diversified product portfolio as well as its organic and inorganic expansion initiatives. Earnings Whispers Our proven model does not conclusively show that Barnes Group will be able to pull a surprise this quarter. That is because a stock needs to have both a positive Earnings ESP and a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy), #2 (Buy) or #3 (Hold) for a likely earnings beat. You can uncover the best stocks to buy or sell before they're reported with our Earnings ESP Filter . Zacks ESP: Barnes Group has an ESP of 0.00% for the quarter. This is because both the Most Accurate estimate and the Zacks Consensus Estimate are pegged at 64 cents. Barnes Group, Inc. Price and EPS Surprise Barnes Group, Inc. Price and EPS Surprise | Barnes Group, Inc. Quote Zacks Rank: Barnes Group currently carries a Zacks Rank #4 (Sell). As it is we caution against stocks with Zacks Rank #4 or #5 (Sell-rated) going into the earnings announcement, especially when the company is seeing negative estimate revisions. Stocks to Consider Here are some companies in the machinery industry you may want to consider, as they have the right combination of elements to post an earnings beat this quarter, according to our model. Illinois Tool Works Inc. ITW , with an Earnings ESP of +0.69% and a Zacks Rank #2. You can see the complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank stocks here . Graham Corporation GHM , with an Earnings ESP of +16.67% and a Zacks Rank #3. Caterpillar Inc. CAT , with an Earnings ESP of +1.85% and a Zacks Rank #3. Zacks' Top Investment Ideas for Long-Term Profit How would you like to see our best recommendations to help you find today's most promising long-term stocks? Starting now, you can look inside our portfolios featuring stocks under $10, income stocks, value investments and more. These picks, which have double and triple-digit profit potential, are rarely available to the public. But you can see them now. Click here Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report Caterpillar, Inc. (CAT): Free Stock Analysis Report Illinois Tool Works Inc. (ITW): Free Stock Analysis Report Barnes Group, Inc. (B): Free Stock Analysis Report Graham Corporation (GHM): Free Stock Analysis Report To read this article on Zacks.com click here. Zacks Investment Research The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.