BREAKING:  Dow, S P 500 Stay Down; Nasdaq Inches Into Positive Ground Need to register? Current subscribers register here . In addition to the unveiling of Boeing's 787-10, Trump's appearance at the company's South Carolina plant Friday is expected to include an announcement on the Export-Import Bank. (Boeing) Here's your Investing Action Plan for Friday: what you need to know as an investor for the coming day. Boeing ( BA ) will be in the spotlight as it unveils its latest Dreamliner and hosts President Trump at its plant in South Carolina, where the widebody plane is made. And while the aerospace giant appears to have the president's ear, shares of rivals in the defense sector like Lockheed Martin ( LMT ) and Northrop Grumman ( NOC ) are making moves. Meanwhile, Deere ( DE ) reports earnings. In addition to the unveiling of Boeing's 787-10, Trump's appearance at the South Carolina plant is also expected to include an announcement on the Export-Import Bank , which has become a political football in recent years. Congress, led by conservative Republicans, allowed the federal export credit agency's charter to expire in 2015, forcing the lender to close for six months before it opened back up with limited authority. Big exporters like Boeing, General Electric ( GE ) and Caterpillar ( CAT ) have backed the lender and pushed for re-establishing a quorum on the bank's board to let it to make deals greater than $10 million. Friday's event also comes days after Boeing workers in South Carolina voted against joining a union by a wide margin (about 74% of the more than 2,800 workers who cast ballots voted no). That should help keep labor costs down on the Dreamliner program, which finally turned profitable last year. Shares of Boeing closed up 0.9% at 170.81 on the stock market today , rising further above their buy range after a breakout last month. GE ticked 0.3% higher, while Caterpillar slipped 0.8%. Lockheed shares are on pace for the their 11th consecutive gain, despite a Bloomberg report that said Boeing CEO Dennis Muilenburg was listening in on a call that Trump made to the Pentagon's F-35 program manager as the president-elect. Trump has attacked Lockheed's fighter program over its costs and suggested it would compete against Boeing's F/A-18 Super Hornet. Lockheed and other defense stocks jumped immediately after the election, then sold off amid Trump's cost criticisms and doubts that a spending splurge on weapons would materialize. But they have since recovered, with Lockheed up 0.7% Thursday at 265.33, edging toward a 270 buy point. Northrop added 0.8% to 243.53 on its way toward a 253.90 entry, and Raytheon edged down 0.3% to 152.39, just below a 152.68 buy point. Meanwhile, General Dynamics ( GD ) rose 0.4%, remaining in a buy zone. RELATED: How Did Pentagon F-35 Chief Talk To Trump, Boeing CEO? Very Carefully IBD'S TAKE : MarketSmith includes a list of stocks updated daily that are near buy points, in the process of breaking out, and are making notable moves in high volume. The maker of farming and construction equipment reports fiscal Q1 results before the open. Estimates : EPS to drop 33% to 54 cents with revenue down 2% to $4.67 billion. Stock : Shares finished 0.1% lower at 109.17, still in buy zone after a January breakout. Deere jumped after the election on hopes for more infrastructure spending and expectations it would benefit from construction of a U.S.-Mexico wall. Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway ( BRKB ) dissolved its stake in Deere in Q4, and growing discord in Washington, D.C., has weighed on chances for infrastructure spending. A defense analyst said that while Lockheed currently doesn't have any grounds for legal action, if a future competition pitted its F-35C against an advanced Boeing F/A-Super Hornet, then Lockheed could have grounds for a bid protest. (Lockheed Martin) 11:56 AM ET President Trump's call to the F-35 program officer with Boeing CEO last month could give Lockheed Martin grounds for protest... 11:56 AM ET President Trump's call to the F-35 program officer with Boeing... The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association recommends that bond markets shutter on Monday as well. (AP) FANG CEOs Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, Reed Hastings and Larry Page. (AP) Find the broker that's right for you with IBD's annual list of the Best Online Brokers. Get 4 free weeks of the IBD Digital edition plus access to IBD s exclusive market analysis, proprietary stock ratings and interactive tools. Stay on top of the market with IBD s exclusive videos. You will find the latest news, market analysis, and education to help you become a more successful investor. Get the most out of IBD s products and features by learning the CAN SLIM Investing System and staying in sync with the market trend. Notice: Information contained herein is not and should not be construed as an offer, solicitation, or recommendation to buy or sell securities. The information has been obtained from sources we believe to be reliable; however no guarantee is made or implied with respect to its accuracy, timeliness, or completeness. Authors may own the stocks they discuss. The information and content are subject to change without notice. *Real-time prices by Bats®. Volume delayed. Real-time quote and/or trade prices are not sourced from all markets. © 2000-2017 Investor's Business Daily, Inc. All rights reserved