Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! Wall Street ended higher on Monday, extending last week's record rallies to new peaks as investors continued the optimistic mood after President Donald Trump pledged a new tax plan and on the heels of his amicable meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe over the weekend. Financials led gains among the S P 500 sectors, rising 1.1%. On the Dow Jones Industrial Average, 25 of the 30 blue chips gained ground. The Dow posted three straight day of gains, each of them record highs, while the Nasdaq Composite and the S P 500 were both up for the sixth consecutive day. Stocks have been propelled by Trump's announcement last week that he will unveil a tax plan that will be favorable to U.S. businesses. Hopeful that tax cuts, infrastructure spending and deregulation will fuel a faster pace of economic growth, investors have been generally driving up stocks since the November vote. Apple ( AAPL ) ended at a record high, while Caterpillar ( CAT ) led the Dow. Telecom stocks fell after Verizon ( VZ ) announced it was reintroducing an unlimited data plan. Sprint ( S ), T-Mobile US ( TMUS ) and AT T (T) all retreated. Investors will on Tuesday closely watch Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen speaking on the economy and policy before the Senate Banking Committee Tuesday with her prepared remarks beginning at 10 a.m. ET. Tuesday's economic calendar offers the producer price index report at 8:30 a.m., while firms including American International Group (AIG), Credit Suisse (CS) and Molson Coors Brewing (TAP) due to report quarterly earnings. Here's where the markets stood by the close: US MARKETS Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 142.79 (+0.70%) to 20,412.16 S P 500 was up 12.15 (+0.52%) to 2,328.25 Nasdaq Composite Index was up 29.83 (+0.52%) to 5,763.96 GLOBAL SENTIMENT FTSE 100 was up 0.28% Nikkei 225 was up 0.41% Hang Seng Index was up 0.58% Shanghai China Composite Index was up 0.63% UPSIDE MOVERS (+) SINO (+72.79%) Swings to a profit, Q2 revenue up 33% (+) ZSAN (+41.67%) Migraine treatment achieves co-primary endpoints (+) STNG (+10.61%) Reports narrower-than-expected loss on below consensus revenue, cuts quarterly dividend (+) PLKI (+7.24%) Reuters said Restaurant Brands International (QSR, +4.63%) is interested in buying Popeyes. DOWNSIDE MOVERS (-) SGNL (-15.17%) All Miragen merger-related proposals were approved by shareholders on Friday (-) KNL (-14.15%) Q4 revenue fell short of expectations (-) HAIN (-8.9%) Received an SEC subpoena seeking documents relating to a delayed filing (-) SHLD (-8.05%) Refutes reports it removed certain Trump-branded products from its website and its Kmart unit The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Copyright (C) 2016 MTNewswires.com. All rights reserved. Unauthorized reproduction is strictly prohibited. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.