Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) spent the day trading higher, notching a new record high for the third straight day, and finishing with a triple-digit win. Investors are still eagerly awaiting details of the forthcoming tax plan recently touted by U.S. President Donald Trump, who today met with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau amid promises to strengthen trade relations. Traders are also looking ahead to a handful Fed speeches tomorrow, including testimony from Fed Chair Janet Yellen. Elsewhere, the S P 500 Index (SPX) and Nasdaq Composite (COMP) also notched new all-time intraday highs, as finance and tech stocks took flight, with the SPX breaking through the $20 trillion market cap . Continue reading for more on today's market, including: The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA - 20,412.16) notched an all-time high of 20,441.48, ending the day 0.7% higher, adding 142.8 points. Of the 25 Dow winners, Caterpillar Inc. ( CAT ) enjoyed the biggest gains, adding 2.3%, while the five Dow losers were led by Verizon Communications Inc. ( VZ ), which dropped 0.9%. The S P 500 Index (SPX - 2,328.25) also notched a new all-time high of 2,331.58, adding 0.5%, or 12.2 points, for the day. The Nasdaq Composite (COMP - 5,763.96) rounded out the all-time highs, tapping 5,770.99, and finishing the day with a gain of 0.5%, or 29.8 points. The CBOE Volatility Index (VIX - 11.07) rose 0.2 point, or 2%. 5 Items on Our Radar Today DuPont (DD) and Chemours Co (CC) each agreed to pay $335.4 million to settle a personal injury lawsuit stemming from toxic chemical exposure accusations. CC and its former parent company, DD, both surged after news of the settlement broke, with CC touching a new record high. (MarketWatch) According to unnamed sources, Burger King parent Restaurant Brands International Inc (QSR) is reportedly pursuing Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen Inc (PLKI) , sending the shares of the M A target up 7.2%. (Reuters) The "unlimited" price war weighing on these telecom stocks . Data courtesy of Trade-Alert Commodities March-dated crude futures fell 93 cents, or 1.7%, to end the day at $52.93 per barrel, as concerns about rising U.S. output weighed on oil prices . It was black gold's first loss in four sessions. April-dated gold futures fell for the third straight session, shedding $10.10, or 0.8%, to close at $1,225.80 per ounce, pressured by a rising U.S. dollar and strong U.S. stock markets. Get your daily dose of Dow futures, stock news, and more with Schaeffer's Opening View . The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.