Shares of networker Arista Networks ( ANET ) are up $17.04, or 17%, at $117.21, and price targets at several shops are zooming higher in response, after the company yesterday afternoon reported Q4 revenue that topped analysts’ expectations, and beat on the bottom line by a wide margin, and also handily topped revenue consensus for this quarter. On a conference call with analysts following the report, CEO Jayshree Ullal  noted that cloud computing shops ( Microsoft ’s ( MSFT ) Azure  computing facility is one of the company’s largest customers) continue to spend on the company’s equipment. She noted in particular rising interest in the company’s “Series R” products that do not only switching tasks, but also move into  Cisco Systems ’s ( CSCO ) routing franchise. Ullal also noted the company’s legal battle with Cisco, saying the company had made progress in assembling equipment upon which an import ban had been levied. She did not speculate on the ultimate outcome of Cisco’s remaining claims against Arista, but did note that “four of the five remaining patents primarily cover commonly standard implemented networking features used across the switching industry such as private VLANs, access list and CoPP. Analysts today are particularly impressed the company’s gross profit margin remained steady at 64.4% despite having to shift some manufacturing to the U.S. The only issue for the bears is the valuation , which they think bakes in all the earnings upside at this point. BMO Capital ’s Tim Long reiterates an Outperform rating, and raises his price target to $130 from $100, writing that the momentum in Arista’s business is impressive. Despite the distraction of litigation, demand is very healthy and the company continues to take share in the data center switching market. All of Arista’s major verticals are growing well, highlighted by cloud titans benefiting from 80% Y/Y growth at Microsoft in 2016. We see considerable runway for future growth and share gains, as the company leverages partnerships, expands globally, and addresses new opportunities with new products. Pacific Crest ’s Alex Kurtz reiterates an Overweight rating, and raise his price target to $121 from $100, writing Microsoft, Arista s 7500/7200R hybrid router series and Arista s broader software suite, like CloudVision, remain key upside levers. We would note that Microsoft has six new regions planned for C2017 vs. eight in C2016, and management expects a strong finish to Microsoft s fiscal year-end in C2Q/3Q,” a good thing for the company. From the bear camp, James Faucette with Morgan Stanley , who has an Equal Weight rating on the shares, labels the report “Momentum Majesty.” We believe Arista’s compelling momentum is well reflected in current val.,” writes Faucette, who has a $94 price target, “even as its unique products, management team and operations can’t be overlooked. The stock’s success in the “Cloud Titans” will support a long-term earnings power of ~$6.00, but it is likely well reflected in current stock prices.” Regarding valuation, Faucette writes, We value peak earnings at 18-19x discounted back to allow for potential growth beyond $6.00 EPS as Arista introduces new data center products. We would become more positive on the stock if the company gains faster than expected traction in switch-router use cases or the opportunity proves to be a demonstrably larger market than we are currently anticipating. The momentum in Arista’s business is impressive. Despite the distraction of litigation, demand is very healthy and the company continues to take share in the data center switching market. All of Arista’s major verticals are growing well, highlighted by cloud titans benefiting from 80% Y/Y growth at Microsoft in 2016. We see considerable runway for future growth and share gains, as the company leverages partnerships, expands globally, and addresses new opportunities with new products. Error message Be the first to leave a comment on this blog. Tech Trader Daily is a blog on technology investing written by Barron’s veteran Tiernan Ray. The blog provides news, analysis and original reporting on events important to investors in software, hardware, the Internet, telecommunications and related fields. Comments and tips can be sent to: techtraderdaily@barrons.com . Follow @barronstechblog !function(d,s,id){var js,fjs=d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];if(!d.getElementById(id)){js=d.createElement(s);js.id=id;js.src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js";fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js,fjs);}}(document,"script","twitter-wjs"); Your email has been sent. An error has occured and your email has not been sent. Please try again .