Published: Feb 16, 2017 1:56 p.m. ET J.P. Morgan analyst warns repatriation optimism may be ‘premature’ given tax reform difficulties By Cisco’s core business continues to struggle, but analysts say it’s too early to give up on the stock even as the company works through a lengthy transition that’s included five straight quarters of shrinking revenue. Shares CSCO, +0.35%   traded higher Thursday, up some 3% to $33.71, after analysts issued cautiously optimistic notes to clients following the company’s slightly better-than-expected earnings out Wednesday . The notes largely assured investors that Cisco remains on track, despite major declines in its core switching and router businesses. While there were no major ratings changes on the stock through Thursday morning—the average rating is the equivalent to buy—a number of Wall Street analysts did marginally increase their price targets, many by just a dollar or two. Among those increases were Raymond James, to $34 from $33; J.P. Morgan, to $33 from $29; RBC, to $37 from $35; and Wunderlich Securities, to $30 from $27. The tone in their notes to clients can best be described as cautiously optimistic, with many expressing disappointment in Cisco’s sales outlook for the current quarter and declines in some of Cisco’s core businesses offset by optimism for the company’s cloud business and efforts to boost recurring revenues through subscriptions. Read also: Cisco as a service: subscription focus helps stock turn around after earnings The BrainBot, a brain-scanning technology developed by tech startup PotBotics, enables physicians to pick a marijuana strain that is most suited for their patients needs. “We maintain our outperform rating on Cisco, with ongoing challenges leading sales estimates lower but cost control and stable margin aiding EPS,” wrote Raymond James analyst Simon Leopold. Wunderlich analysts kept their hold rating on the stock and said they were boosting their price target slightly to reflect “prospects for more long-term growth.” J.P. Morgan analyst Rod Hall, who reiterated a neutral rating, said he slightly increased his price target to reflect slightly better-than-expected earnings, but cautioned that the recent stock run up has been largely due to the belief that President Donald Trump will overhaul tax rules . Trump, although he has not offered specific policy details but pledges a “massive” tax plan , is expected to make it more affordable for companies to return international profits back to the U.S. to reinvest in share buybacks, dividends, R D and M A. However, Hall says that’s “premature given the complexity of getting a tax deal done in Washington.” See also: Larry Fink calls Trump’s cash-repatriation plan unlikely to spur growth Analysts at Pacific Crest and RBC were more bullish, despite only raising their price targets by a dollar and two dollars, respectively. RBC’s Mitch Steves said Cisco is making “the correct” structural changes to move to a recurring-revenue model, while Pacific Crest’s Alex Kurtz said that after a “challenging” first quarter, Cisco in its most recent quarter displayed “stability in the sector.” Late Wednesday, Cisco reported second-quarter adjusted earnings per share of 57 cents a share on sales of $11.58 billion, compared with the FactSet consensus estimate of 56 cents on sales of $11.55 billion. The company also announced plans to boost its quarterly dividend to 29 cents from 26 cents. Among the decliners in Cisco’s earnings report were switching and routing, which recorded revenue decreases of 5% and 10%, respectively. That was partially offset by a 14% increase in security revenue, though that business still comprises a small portion of Cisco overall. Cisco shares increased nearly 7% in the past three months and 31% in the past year, virtually in line with the Dow Jones Industrial Average DJIA, -0.27%  , a 30-component index of which Cisco is a member. Jennifer Booton is a MarketWatch reporter based in New York. You can follow her on Twitter @jbooton. Jennifer Booton is a MarketWatch reporter based in New York. You can follow her on Twitter @jbooton. Join the conversation Copyright 2017 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved. By using this site you agree to the Terms of Service , Privacy Policy , and Cookie Policy . Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use . Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data delayed per exchange requirements. S P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones Company, Inc. All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.