BREAKING:  Dow, S P 500 Stay Down; Nasdaq Inches Into Positive Ground Need to register? Current subscribers register here . Arista Networks hit a record high after it posted a Q4 beat, but it remains in litigation with rival Cisco Systems. (Arista) Arista Networks ( ANET ), a fierce rival of  Cisco Systems ( CSCO ), won price-target hikes from a number of investment banks in the wake of its Q4 earnings and revenue beat late Thursday, but Goldman Sachs is sticking with a sell rating. Arista Networks stock popped 17% to a record high above 117 in early trading in the stock market today . Arista made its IPO in June 2014 at 43 a share. Cisco stock, trading near nine-year highs, was down a fraction early Friday. Q4 earnings per share ex items jumped 30% from the year-earlier quarter to $1.04, while revenue rose 34% to $328 million. Analysts had projected 82 cents and $315.2 million. Strong demand from Microsoft ( MSFT ) boosted Arista's Q4 earnings as it navigates a legal battle with Cisco, analysts said. Arista sells network switches that speed up communications in cloud-computing data centers. Besides Microsoft, Arista's customers include  Amazon.com ( AMZN ) and  Facebook ( FB ). IBD'S TAKE:   Arista Networks in January dropped out of the  IBD 50 , a list of fast-growing companies. Nvidia still tops the IBD 50, which also includes Applied Materials, Facebook and NetEase. Amid the legal battle with rival Cisco, Arista Networks has rushed to ramp up U.S. manufacturing in case its imports are blocked. Arista Networks has also stocked up on materials and components from Asian suppliers, analysts say. Jefferies on Friday upgraded Arista Networks to hold from underperform. "We now believe that — in the highest-probability scenario — Arista's legal problems won't affect their core business in any significant way," said Jefferies analyst George Notter in a research report. Pacific Crest Securities hiked its price target on Arista stock to 121 from 100. Needham Co. increased its PT to 130 from 110. RBC Capital hiked it to 115 from 105. BMO Capital Markets upped it to 130 from 110, while Instinet's PT climbed to 125 from 110. "Despite Cisco's best efforts, Arista has successfully navigated a storm of patent litigation and we believe is poised to emerge with its ability to capture Cisco market share intact," said Mark Kelleher, a DA Davidson analyst, in a report. The International Trade Commission has slated a hearing in April related to the Cisco-Arista Network patent litigation. Arista Networks has denied infringing Cisco's patents, and it also says it has modified its network software to resolve issues. Simona Jankowski, a Goldman Sachs analyst who maintains a sell rating on Arista, cautioned that its Q4 beat came from Microsoft "pulling forward demand into 2016 to ensure adequate supply" of network switches. For the current quarter, Arista forecast revenue of $325 million at the midpoint of its guidance vs. consensus estimates of $304.8 million. "We give credit to Arista's strong product portfolio and customer relationships, as well as management's solid execution, for the continued beat-and-raise performance of the company in the face of multiple legal challenges in the two-year-long litigation battle with Cisco," added Jankowski. "We continue to view this as a risky period of execution for the company and for investors, and one that does not appear fully discounted in the stocks' premium valuation." In 2017, Arista Networks is expected to begin to increasingly rely on a U.S. supply chain, weighing on profit margins. RELATED: Cisco Price Targets Hiked On Sign Software, Services Clicking As Networks Speed Up, Arista Gains Ground On Giant Cisco Telsey Advisory downgraded Charter Communications to market perform from outperform, while raising its price target to 345 from 308. (AP) 11:59 AM ET Analyst actions included price-target hikes for Arista Networks, WebMD and Kate Spade, an upgrade of Workday, and a downgrade of... 11:59 AM ET Analyst actions included price-target hikes for Arista Networks, WebMD and... The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association recommends that bond markets shutter on Monday as well. (AP) FANG CEOs Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, Reed Hastings and Larry Page. (AP) Find the broker that's right for you with IBD's annual list of the Best Online Brokers. Get 4 free weeks of the IBD Digital edition plus access to IBD s exclusive market analysis, proprietary stock ratings and interactive tools. Stay on top of the market with IBD s exclusive videos. You will find the latest news, market analysis, and education to help you become a more successful investor. Get the most out of IBD s products and features by learning the CAN SLIM Investing System and staying in sync with the market trend. Notice: Information contained herein is not and should not be construed as an offer, solicitation, or recommendation to buy or sell securities. The information has been obtained from sources we believe to be reliable; however no guarantee is made or implied with respect to its accuracy, timeliness, or completeness. Authors may own the stocks they discuss. The information and content are subject to change without notice. *Real-time prices by Bats®. Volume delayed. Real-time quote and/or trade prices are not sourced from all markets. © 2000-2017 Investor's Business Daily, Inc. All rights reserved