Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) extended its daily win streak to six, eking out a fresh record closing high after a positive earnings reaction for Cisco Systems, Inc. ( CSCO ). The same can't be said for the S P 500 Index (SPX) and Nasdaq Composite (COMP) , which snapped their longest win streaks since 2013 and 1999, respectively, but not before notching new intraday highs of their own. Though energy and bank stocks weighed on the broader equities market, traders also digested this morning's round of mostly upbeat economic data and hawkish comments from Fed Vice Chair Stanley Fischer. Meanwhile, during a press conference, President Donald Trump said a replacement for the Affordable Care Act (ACA) would be unveiled in March -- and take priority over his highly anticipated tax plan. Continue reading for more on today's market, including: The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA - 20,619.77) touched a new all-time intraday high of 20,639.87, and ended 7.9 points, or 0.04%, higher. Of the 30 Dow stocks, 15 ended higher, with CSCO's 2.4% gain leading the way. The 15 losers were paced by Chevron Corporation ( CVX ), which fell 1.7%. The S P 500 Index (SPX - 2,347.22) dropped 2 points, or 0.1%, after notching a new intraday high of 2,351.31. Meanwhile, the Nasdaq Composite (COMP - 5,814.90) dropped 4.5 points, or 0.1%, after hitting an all-time intraday peak of 5,835.15. After being up 7.4% in intraday action, the CBOE Volatility Index (VIX - 11.76) settled down 0.2 point, or 1.8%. 5 Items on Our Radar Today Snapchat parent Snap Inc. set the target range for its initial public offering (IPO) at $14 to $16 per share, creating a top-end valuation of roughly $22 billion. The stock is set to begin trading in early March on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker SNAP. (Los Angeles Times) TransCanada Corporation (USA) ( TRP ) filed its application to route the Keystone XL pipeline through the state of Nebraska, after President Trump gave the thumbs up on the controversial project last month. (Reuters) The case for buying GoPro Inc ( GPRO ). Data courtesy of Trade-Alert Commodities March-dated crude futures added 25 cents, or 0.5%, to settle at $53.36 per barrel, amid optimism that global oil producers will extend their output agreement past June. April-dated gold futures tacked on $8.50, or 0.7%, to close at $1,241.60 an ounce -- a three-month high. The precious metal was boosted by a declining U.S. dollar and potential political risk in the U.S. and Europe. Get your daily dose of Dow futures, stock news, and more with Schaeffer's Opening View . The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.