Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! For Immediate Release Chicago, IL - February 16, 2017 - Zacks Director of Research Sheraz Mian says, "This should add to confidence in consensus expectations for the current and following quarters when growth is expected to notably ramp up" A Positive and Reassuring Earnings Picture Note: The following is an excerpt from this week's Earnings Trends report. You can access the full report that contains detailed historical actuals and estimates for the current and following periods, please click here With 75% of Q4 results already out, the earnings picture continues to be positive and reassuring. Not only is growth on track to reach its highest level in two years, but total earnings are on track to reach a new quarterly record. Estimates for the current period have started coming down, but they aren't falling as much as would typically be the case historically. All of this should add to confidence in consensus expectations for the current and following quarters when growth is expected to notably ramp up. makeArticleAd(); As of Wednesday, February 15th, we have seen Q4 results from 375 S P 500 members or 75% of the index's total membership. Total earnings for these 375 index members are up +7.2% on +4.6% higher revenues, with 68.8% beating EPS estimates and 54.4% coming ahead of top-line expectations. The proportion of companies beating both EPS and revenue estimates is 40%. Here are the four things to know about how this earnings season has shaped up First , the earnings and revenue growth for this group of 375 index members is notably above other recent periods. The +7.2% Q4 earnings growth on +4.6% revenue growth compares to +3.0% earnings growth on +2.3% revenue growth for this same group of companies in 2016 Q3. The Q4 growth relative to the 4-quarter and 12-quarter averages is even pronounced. The growth comparisons to prior periods remain favorable even when the Finance sector's strong numbers are excluded from the aggregate results. Excluding the Finance sector, total Q4 earnings growth drops to +4.4% (from +7.2% with Finance) on +4.5% higher revenues (+4.6% with Finance). The Energy sector hasn't been a material factor this earnings season, with the sector's earnings growth turning positive for the first time in more than two years. Exxon's (NYSE: XOM - Free Report ) +33% higher earnings in Q4 are more than offsetting the tough comparisons at Chevron (NYSE: CVX - Free Report ) and weak results at others to push the sector into positive growth territory. Second , positive surprises are tracking below historical periods, both for earnings as well as revenues. The 68.8% earnings beat percentage and 54.4% revenue beat percentage are below the 74.4% and 56.8% earnings and revenue beat percentages for this same group of companies in the preceding quarter, respectively. The proportion of Q4 positive surprises are similarly tracking below the 4-quarter and 12-quarter averages. Third , looking at Q4 as a whole, combining the actual results from the 375 S P 500 companies that have reported with estimates for the still-to-come 125 index members, total earnings are expected to be up +7.4% from the same period last year on +3.9% higher revenues. The +7.4% earnings growth in Q4, the highest since 2014 Q4, would follow the +3.7% growth in Q3 earnings on +2.2% higher revenues, the first instance of positive earnings growth for the index after five quarters of back-to-back declines. Importantly, the improved Q4 growth is not a result of easy comparisons. In fact, the absolute earnings total for the quarter is on track to be the highest ever. Fourth, estimates for the current period (2017 Q1) are holding up really well, which is reassuring since expectations for the period already reflected strong gains. Total earnings for the S P 500 index are currently expected to be up +7.4% from the same period last year on +6.8% higher revenues. This is down from expectations of +10.3% earnings growth in early January. This magnitude of negative revisions is about in-line with what we saw in the comparable period for Q4, but better than the quarters prior to that. All of this combined should add to greater confidence in current consensus expectations for the coming periods when growth is expected to notably pick up. If you want an email notification each time Sheraz Mian publishes a new article, please click here About Zacks Equity Research Zacks Equity Research provides the best of quantitative and qualitative analysis to help investors know what stocks to buy and which to sell for the long-term. Continuous analyst coverage is provided for a universe of 1,150 publicly traded stocks. Our analysts are organized by industry which gives them keen insights to developments that affect company profits and stock performance. Recommendations and target prices are six-month time horizons. Strong Stocks that Should Be in the News Many are little publicized and fly under the Wall Street radar. They're virtually unknown to the general public. Yet today's 220 Zacks Rank #1 "Strong Buys" were generated by the stock-picking system that has nearly tripled the market from 1988 through 2015. Its average gain has been a stellar +26% per year. See these high-potential stocks free . Get the full Report on XOM - FREE Get the full Report on CVX - FREE Follow us on Twitter: https://twitter.com/zacksresearch Join us on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/home.php#/pages/Zacks-Investment-Research/57553657748?ref=ts Zacks Investment Research is under common control with affiliated entities (including a broker-dealer and an investment adviser), which may engage in transactions involving the foregoing securities for the clients of such affiliates. Media Contact Zacks Investment Research 800-767-3771 ext. 9339 support@zacks.com https://www.zacks.com/ Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Inherent in any investment is the potential for loss. This material is being provided for informational purposes only and nothing herein constitutes investment, legal, accounting or tax advice, or a recommendation to buy, sell or hold a security. No recommendation or advice is being given as to whether any investment is suitable for a particular investor. It should not be assumed that any investments in securities, companies, sectors or markets identified and described were or will be profitable. All information is current as of the date of herein and is subject to change without notice. Any views or opinions expressed may not reflect those of the firm as a whole. Zacks Investment Research does not engage in investment banking, market making or asset management activities of any securities. These returns are from hypothetical portfolios consisting of stocks with Zacks Rank = 1 that were rebalanced monthly with zero transaction costs. These are not the returns of actual portfolios of stocks. The S P 500 is an unmanaged index. Visit https://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release. Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report Exxon Mobil Corporation (XOM): Free Stock Analysis Report Chevron Corporation (CVX): Free Stock Analysis Report To read this article on Zacks.com click here. The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.