Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! Minerals Technologies Inc. ( MTX ) will begin trading ex-dividend on February 15, 2017. A cash dividend payment of $0.05 per share is scheduled to be paid on March 09, 2017. Shareholders who purchased MTX prior to the ex-dividend date are eligible for the cash dividend payment. This marks the 15th quarter that MTX has paid the same dividend. The previous trading day's last sale of MTX was $78.45, representing a -6.44% decrease from the 52 week high of $83.85 and a 77.53% increase over the 52 week low of $44.19. MTX is a part of the Basic Industries sector, which includes companies such as Dow Chemical Company ( DOW ) and E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company ( DD ). MTX's current earnings per share, an indicator of a company's profitability, is $3.79. Zacks Investment Research reports MTX's forecasted earnings growth in 2017 as 7.94%, compared to an industry average of 4.5%. For more information on the declaration, record and payment dates, visit the MTX Dividend History page. Our Dividend Calendar has the full list of stocks that have an ex-dividend today. Interested in gaining exposure to MTX through an Exchange Traded Fund [ETF]? The following ETF(s) have MTX as a top-10 holding: iShares MSCI Germany Small-Cap ETF ( EWGS ) PowerShares DWA Basic Materials Momentum Portfolio ( PYZ ) iShares U.S. Basic Materials ETF ( IYM ). The top-performing ETF of this group is IYM with an increase of 15.37% over the last 100 days. EWGS has the highest percent weighting of MTX at 4.92%. The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.