BREAKING:  Dow, S P 500 Stay Down; Nasdaq Inches Into Positive Ground Need to register? Current subscribers register here . All three major averages opened higher Monday ahead of a busy week of economic data. (Nasdaq) U.S. stocks opened higher Monday ahead of a busy week of economic data and testimony on Capitol Hill by Federal Reserve chief Janet Yellen. The Dow Jones industrial average and Nasdaq climbed 0.4%. The S P 500 rose 0.3% at the open. Small caps also got an early bid with the Russell 2000 up 0.7%. Shares of Apple ( AAPL ) added 0.9%, helped by a price target hike by Goldman Sachs to 150 from 133. In merger news, Allergan ( AGN ) announced plans to acquire Zeltiq Aesthetics ( ZLTQ ) for $2.5 billion. According to Allergan, the body contouring market is a $4 billion market and growing. The news sent Zeltiq shares higher by more than 12% at the open. Allergan rose 0.4%. In earnings news, electronic commerce and payments provider First Data ( FDC ) reported earnings before the open. Earnings per share topped expectations, but sales were a tad light. Shares jumped nearly 4% at the open. First Data is in buy range from a 15.81 buy point with supporting action at the 10-week moving average. Elsewhere, DuPont ( DD ) and Chemours ( CC ) settled a Teflon chemical exposure case for $671 million. DuPont has been getting consistent support at at its 10-week moving average after a recent breakout. Shares of DuPont edged 0.6% higher while Teflon maker Chemours soared 14%. Chemours recently cleared a cup-shaped base with a 27.39 buy point but volume was light. Earnings are due Wednesday after the close. It's a busy week of economic data with reports due on wholesale and consumer inflation, January retail sales, housing starts and manufacturing data. Also, Fed chief Janet Yellen is on Capitol Hill his week. She's testifying before a Senate committee Tuesday and a House panel Wednesday on monetary policy. At the New York Mercantile Exchange, U.S. crude oil futures were down 0.8% to $53.45 a a barrel. Gold eased 0.6% to $1,226.60 an ounce. The 10-year Treasury yield added 3 basis points to 2.44%. RELATED : Yellen, NetEase, Gold Stocks, Cisco, F-35 Lead Investing Action Plan Nvidia broke its 50-day line in early trading but has recovered much of its losses. (Nvidia) 12:08 PM ET The major indexes reversed from early losses, but some leading stocks remained mired in the red ahead of the long... 12:08 PM ET The major indexes reversed from early losses, but some leading... The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association recommends that bond markets shutter on Monday as well. (AP) FANG CEOs Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, Reed Hastings and Larry Page. (AP) Find the broker that's right for you with IBD's annual list of the Best Online Brokers. Get 4 free weeks of the IBD Digital edition plus access to IBD s exclusive market analysis, proprietary stock ratings and interactive tools. Stay on top of the market with IBD s exclusive videos. You will find the latest news, market analysis, and education to help you become a more successful investor. Get the most out of IBD s products and features by learning the CAN SLIM Investing System and staying in sync with the market trend. Notice: Information contained herein is not and should not be construed as an offer, solicitation, or recommendation to buy or sell securities. The information has been obtained from sources we believe to be reliable; however no guarantee is made or implied with respect to its accuracy, timeliness, or completeness. Authors may own the stocks they discuss. The information and content are subject to change without notice. *Real-time prices by Bats®. Volume delayed. Real-time quote and/or trade prices are not sourced from all markets. © 2000-2017 Investor's Business Daily, Inc. All rights reserved