Quotes Info Enter Symbol(s): e.g.
YHOO, ^DJI Symbol
Lookup | Financial
Search DD SEC
Filings for
DD Form
8-K on
13-Feb-2017 All
Recent SEC Filings Show all filings for DUPONT E I DE NEMOURS & CO Form
8-K for
DUPONT E I DE NEMOURS & CO 13-Feb-2017 Other Events, Financial Statements and Exhibits Item 8.01 Other Events Settlement of PFOA Litigation As previously reported, approximately 3,550 lawsuits have been filed in various
federal and state courts in Ohio and West Virginia alleging personal injury from
exposure to perfluorooctanoic acid and its salts, including the ammonium salt
( PFOA ), in drinking water as a result of the historical manufacture or use of
PFOA at the Washington Works plant outside Parkersburg, West Virginia. That
plant was previously owned and/or operated by the performance chemicals segment
of E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company ( DuPont ) and is now owned and/or
operated by The Chemours Company ( Chemours ). These personal injury lawsuits
were consolidated in multi-district litigation in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of Ohio (the MDL ). On February 11, 2017, DuPont entered into an agreement in principle with
plaintiffs' counsel representing the MDL plaintiffs providing for a global
settlement of all cases and claims in the MDL, including all filed and unfiled
personal injury cases and claims that are part of the plaintiffs' counsel's
claim inventory, as well as cases that have been tried to a jury verdict (the Settlement ). The total settlement amount is $670.7 million dollars in cash,
half of which will be paid by Chemours and half paid by DuPont. DuPont's
payment would not be subject to indemnification or reimbursement by Chemours.
In exchange for that payment, DuPont and Chemours will receive a complete
release of all claims by the settling plaintiffs. The Settlement was entered
into solely by way of compromise and settlement and is not in any way an
admission of liability or fault by DuPont or Chemours. The Settlement is not subject to court approval. The parties have agreed to
draft a master settlement agreement to effect the terms of the agreement in
principle, which agreement would address the timing and logistics of the
settlement payment and conditions under which the Settlement might not proceed,
including a walk-away right that enables DuPont to terminate the Settlement if
more than a specified number of plaintiffs determine not to participate. DuPont and Chemours have also agreed, subject to and following the completion of
the Settlement, to a limited sharing of potential future PFOA liabilities (i.e., indemnifiable losses, as defined in the separation agreement between DuPont
and Chemours (the Separation Agreement )) for a period of five years. During
that five-year period, Chemours would annually pay future PFOA liabilities up to
$25 million and, if such amount is exceeded, DuPont would pay any excess amount
up to the next $25 million (which payment will not be subject to indemnification
by Chemours), with Chemours annually bearing any further excess liabilities.
After the five-year period, this limited sharing agreement would expire, and
Chemours' indemnification obligations under the Separation Agreement would
continue unchanged. Chemours has also agreed that, upon the Settlement becoming
effective, it will not contest its liability to DuPont under the Separation
Agreement for PFOA liabilities on the basis of ostensible defenses generally
applicable to the indemnification provisions under the Separation Agreement,
including defenses relating to punitive damages, fines or penalties or
attorneys' fees, and waives any such defenses with respect to PFOA liabilities.
Chemours has, however, retained defenses as to whether any particular PFOA claim
is within the scope of the indemnification provisions of the Separation
Agreement. Press Release On February 13, 2017, DuPont issued a press release announcing the Settlement
and the other matters described in this Current Report on Form 8-K. A copy of
the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by
reference into this Item 8.01. Cautionary Statement About Forward-Looking Statements This communication contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of
the federal securities laws, including Section 27A of the Securities Act of
1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended. In this context, forward-looking statements often address expected
future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often
contain words such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, seek, see, will, would, target, similar expressions, and variations or
negatives of these words. Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to
different degrees, uncertain, such as statements about the consummation of the
proposed transaction and the anticipated benefits thereof. Forward-looking
statements are not guarantees of future performance and are based on certain
assumptions and expectations of future events which may not be realized.
Forward-looking statements also involve risks and uncertainties, many of which
are beyond the company's control. Some of the important factors that could cause
the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any
such forward-looking statements are: fluctuations in energy and raw material
prices; failure to develop and market new products and optimally manage product
life cycles; ability to respond to market acceptance, rules, regulations and
policies affecting products based on biotechnology and, in general, for products for the
agriculture industry; outcome of significant litigation and environmental
matters, including realization of associated indemnification assets, if any;
failure to appropriately manage process safety and product stewardship issues;
changes in laws and regulations or political conditions; global economic and
capital markets conditions, such as inflation, interest and currency exchange
rates; business or supply disruptions; security threats, such as acts of
sabotage, terrorism or war, natural disasters and weather events and patterns
which could affect demand as well as availability of products for the
agriculture industry; ability to protect and enforce the company's intellectual
property rights; successful integration of acquired businesses and separation of
underperforming or non-strategic assets or businesses; and risks related to the
agreement entered on December 11, 2015, with The Dow Chemical Company ( Dow )
pursuant to which the companies have agreed to effect an all-stock merger of
equals, including the completion of the proposed transaction on anticipated
terms and timing, the ability to fully and timely realize the expected benefits
of the proposed transaction and risks related to the intended business
separations contemplated to occur after the completion of the proposed
transaction. Important risk factors relating to the proposed transaction and
intended business separations include, but are not limited to, (i) the
completion of the proposed transaction on anticipated terms and timing,
including obtaining regulatory approvals, anticipated tax treatment, unforeseen
liabilities, future capital expenditures, revenues, expenses, earnings,
synergies, economic performance, indebtedness, financial condition, losses,
future prospects, business and management strategies for the management,
expansion and growth of the new combined company's operations and other
conditions to the completion of the merger, (ii) the ability of Dow and DuPont
to integrate the business successfully and to achieve anticipated synergies,
risks and costs and pursuit and/or implementation of the potential separations,
including anticipated timing, any changes to the configuration of businesses
included in the potential separation if implemented, (iii) the intended
separation of the agriculture, material science and specialty products
businesses of the combined company post-mergers in one or more tax efficient
transactions on anticipated terms and timing, including a number of conditions
which could delay, prevent or otherwise adversely affect the proposed
transactions, including possible issues or delays in obtaining required
regulatory approvals or clearances, disruptions in the financial markets or
other potential barriers, (iv) potential litigation relating to the proposed
transaction that could be instituted against Dow, DuPont or their respective
directors, (v) the risk that disruptions from the proposed transaction will harm
Dow's or DuPont's business, including current plans and operations, (vi) the
ability of Dow or DuPont to retain and hire key personnel, (vii) potential
adverse reactions or changes to business relationships resulting from the
announcement or completion of the merger, (viii) uncertainty as to the long-term
value of DowDuPont common stock, (ix) continued availability of capital and
financing and rating agency actions, (x) legislative, regulatory and economic
developments, (xi) potential business uncertainty, including changes to existing
business relationships, during the pendency of the merger that could affect
Dow's and/or DuPont's financial performance, (xii) certain restrictions during
the pendency of the merger that may impact Dow's or DuPont's ability to pursue
certain business opportunities or strategic transactions and (xiii) unpredictability and severity of catastrophic events, including, but not
limited to, acts of terrorism or outbreak of war or hostilities, as well as
management's response to any of the aforementioned factors. These risks, as well
as other risks associated with the proposed merger, are more fully discussed in
the joint proxy statement/prospectus included in the registration statement on
Form S-4 declared effective by the SEC on June 9, 2016 (File No. 333-209869), as
last amended, (the Registration Statement ) in connection with the proposed
merger. While the list of factors presented here is, and the list of factors
presented in the Registration Statement are, considered representative, no such
list should be considered to be a complete statement of all potential risks and
uncertainties. Unlisted factors may present significant additional obstacles to
the realization of forward-looking statements. Consequences of material
differences in results as compared with those anticipated in the forward-looking
statements could include, among other things, business disruption, operational
problems, financial loss, legal liability to third parties and similar risks,
any of which could have a material adverse effect on Dow's or DuPont's
consolidated financial condition, results of operations, credit rating or
liquidity. Neither Dow nor DuPont assumes any obligation to publicly provide
revisions or updates to any forward-looking statements regarding the proposed
transaction and intended business separations, whether as a result of new
information, future developments or otherwise, should circumstances change,
except as otherwise required by securities and other applicable laws. The
company undertakes no duty to publicly revise or update any forward-looking
statements as a result of future developments, or new information or otherwise,
should circumstances change, except as otherwise required by securities and
other applicable laws. Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (d) Exhibits. Exhibit No. Exhibit Description 99.1 Press Release dated February 13, 2017 Add
DD to Portfolio Set Alert Email to a
Friend Get SEC Filings for Another Symbol: Symbol Lookup Quotes Info for
DD - All Recent SEC Filings Copyright 2017 Yahoo! Inc.
All rights reserved. Privacy Policy - Terms of Service SEC
Filing data and information provided by EDGAR Online,
Inc.
(1-800-416-6651). All information provided "as is"
for informational purposes
only, not intended for trading purposes or advice.
Neither Yahoo! nor any of
independent providers is liable for any informational
errors, incompleteness,
or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on
information contained
herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not
to redistribute the
information found therein.  