Published: Feb 15, 2017 7:01 a.m. ET Companies agree to pay $335.4 million each to settle personal injury lawsuits relating to exposure to a toxic chemical By Shares of chemical company Chemours Co. surged to a fresh record close Monday, after the company and former parent E.I. DuPont de Nemours Cie. agreed to pay $335.4 million each to settle personal injury lawsuits relating to exposure to a toxic chemical at a West Virginia plant. Shares ended up 14.2% for their biggest one-day gain in seven months. Don’t miss: 2 chemical stocks to buy and 2 to sell DuPont DD, -0.39%  and Chemours CC, +4.36% which was spun off in July 2015, have been the subject of more than 3,000 lawsuits in federal and state courts in Ohio and West Virginia over exposure to perfluorooctanoic acid in drinking water. The chemical, known as PFOA, was used for many years as a plastic coating and to make products such as Teflon nonstick cooking utensils. Attorneys for the companies and the plaintiffs in the multidistrict litigation agreed to the settlement. The companies both deny wrongdoing and stopped making the chemicals more than 10 years ago. “The agreement resolves all indemnification obligations between Chemours and DuPont for all of the approximately 3,500 claims in the Ohio multidistrict litigation,” Chemours said in a statement. Read also: Here’s one industry where the U.S. is already catching China—fertilizers Analysts at CreditSights said they were expecting a settlement to range from $200 million to $400 million, with DuPont paying a portion of the total. However, with DuPont paying half, the net-liability for Chemours is within the bounds of the research firm’s expectations. Lawsuits on health and environmental liability are among the biggest risks affecting the chemical industry. But could they also be one of the main drivers of progress? “Given DuPont’s merger with Dow and the amount of value at stake for Dow/DuPont, it is not overly surprising that DuPont would step up its contribution level to achieve certainty in this matter,” CreditSight analysts wrote in a comment. “For Chemours, the settlement is manageable and significantly less than many investors were modeling in.” DuPont is currently in the midst of a merger with Dow Chemical Co. DOW, -0.28%   Chemours bonds also rallied on the news as the litigation cloud lifted. CreditSights said it is moving to an outperform rating from underperform on the news. The company’s most active bonds, the $750 million of 7.000% notes that mature in May of 2025, were last trading at 108 cents on the dollar, according to MarketAxess, up from about 102 cents on Friday. Chemours has about $3.7 billion of long-term debt, including $2.3 billion of bonds, according to FactSet data. Chemours shares have gained 45% in the year to date, while DuPont has gained 6%. The S P 500 SPX, -0.23%   is up 3.9% in the same time frame. Ciara Linnane is MarketWatch's investing- and corporate-news editor. She is based in New York. Ciara Linnane is MarketWatch's investing- and corporate-news editor. She is based in New York. Join the conversation Copyright 2017 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved. By using this site you agree to the Terms of Service , Privacy Policy , and Cookie Policy . Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use . Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data delayed per exchange requirements. S P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones Company, Inc. All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.