Sat, Feb 18, 2017, 4:38 AM AEDT - Australia Markets closed Sydney, Australia, Nov 2, 2016 - (ABN Newswire) - Emefcy Group Limited (ASX: EMC.AX - News ), a provider of innovative, high effluent quality wastewater treatment solutions, has been listed as one of the Top 10 Technologies at WEFTEC by Water Online's Editor, Kevin Westerling, for its Membrane Aerated Biofilm Reactor (MABR). Editor, Kevin Westerling, covers the top 10 technologies that "stood out from the masses, exceptional for their level of innovation and potential for industry impact." Emefcy presented its MABR based wastewater treatment solution at WEFTEC 2016 in September. The company's innovative technology is the ideal solution for decentralized small-medium sized plants, for reuse applications or for safe discharge to the environment. As reported by Westerling, Emefcy is the first to commercialize MABR technology, reducing energy consumption by up to 90% and sludge yield by 50%, compared to conventional aerobic wastewater treatment, with minimum operator involvement. The scalable modules allow gradual expansion according to the plant's requirements, and the system is odorless and quiet, making it suitable for rural villages, sustainable buildings, hotels, resorts and golf courses. Emefcy recently launched its first operational plant in the Jezreel Valley, Israel and will soon launch plants in the US Virgin Islands and at the Ayder Hospital in Ethiopia. Watch an explanatory clip about Emefcy's MABR technology on YouTube ( http://www.abnnewswire.net/lnk/4U960VJ4 ). For the full article at Water online ( http://www.abnnewswire.net/lnk/YL17X987 ) About Emefcy Group Ltd: Emefcy Group Ltd (ASX: EMC.AX - News ) develops, manufactures and markets new, energy-efficient MABR based wastewater treatment solutions, aiming to change the economics of various markets and addressing the growing global demand for clean water in municipal and industrial plants. Emefcy's advanced manufacturing facility in Israel is equipped with state of the art production machinery, enabling the company to control the quality and meet the quantity requirements of its markets outside China. With several global innovation awards and a strong scientific background, Emefcy is at the forefront of the next generation of MABR based wastewater treatment. Customer contracts have been signed in Israel, US Virgin Islands, Ethiopia and China. Additional MABR based wastewater treatment solutions from Emefcy's extensive R operations are scheduled to be announced in the coming year. Emefcy Group Limited (EMC) is a public company traded in the Australian Stock Exchange. Contact: Source: Emefcy Group Ltd Copyright (C) 2016 ABN Newswire. All rights reserved. Duke Energy Meets 4Q16 Estimates and Issues Duke Energy (DUK) finished 2016 on a strong note and posted annual earnings growth of 3.3%. World stock markets eased back Friday as a Trump-fuelled surge fizzled out, but London gained in an end-of-week Quotes are real-time for NASDAQ, NYSE, and NYSEAmex when available. See also delay times for other exchanges . Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page . Quotes are updated automatically, but will be turned off after 25 minutes of inactivity. Quotes are delayed at least 15 minutes. All information provided "as is" for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Neither Yahoo! nor any of independent providers is liable for any informational errors, incompleteness, or delays, or for any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein. By accessing the Yahoo! site, you agree not to redistribute the information found therein. Fundamental company data provided by Capital IQ . Historical chart data and daily updates provided by Commodity Systems, Inc. (CSI) . International historical chart data and daily updates provided by Morningstar, Inc . Yahoo7 News Network