First Solar Inc. ( FSLR ) and Prime Road Group announced Wednesday the completion of four solar farms totaling 18 megawatts of DC capacity in Thailand. The Prime Road Group Co-Op Project, developed under Thailand’s Governmental Agency and its Agricultural Cooperatives Program, has supported the development of solar farms across the Ayutthaya and Pathum Thani Provinces. The project utilizes more than 158,500 First Solar thin-film photovoltaic (PV) modules to produce an approximate 29,600 megawatts of power per hour (MWh) of clean electricity in the first year of operation. Tempe, Ariz.-based First Solar says the completion of the project marks an important milestone for the Southeast Asian country as it continues to grow its installed solar PV capacity and target 30% renewable energy by 2036. At large, the joint program indicates First Solar could land a series if similar government contracts as solar energy is projected to comprise a majority of the world’s energy production by midcentury. (See also: 2017: A Turning Point for the Solar Industry .) “The completion represents a significant installation of First Solar modules in Southeast Asia, and we congratulate Prime Road Group and Bouygues-Thaion the successful delivery of this milestone project today," said Robert Bartrop, First Solar's director of business development in Southeast Asia and China. "First Solar's partnership with the Prime Road Group Co-Op Project reflects the value of First Solar technology in hot and humid climates such as Thailand, and we look forward to supporting future projects and the country's renewable energy targets." Despite a short-term shock to the renewable energy sector as a whole, particularly to First Solar as it announces a widespread, costly restructuring in order to streamline the production of a more efficient model, long-term investors remain bullish on an inevitable global shift to sustainable energy production. (See also: Can First Solar Rebound After 2016's Decline? ) Want to learn how to invest? Delivered twice a week, straight to your inbox.