Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! Corning Inc (Symbol: GLW) has been named a Top Socially Responsible Dividend Stock by Dividend Channel , signifying a stock with above-average ''DividendRank'' statistics including a strong 2.3% yield, as well as being recognized by prominent asset managers as being a socially responsible investment, through analysis of social and environmental criteria. Environmental criteria include considerations like the environmental impact of the company's products and services, as well as the company's efficiency in terms of its use of energy and resources. Social criteria include elements such as human rights, child labor, corporate diversity, and the company's impact on society - for instance, taken into consideration would be business activities tied to weapons, gambling, tobacco, and alcohol. According to the ETF Finder at ETF Channel , Corning Inc is a member of both the iShares MSCI USA ESG Select Social Index Fund ETF ( KLD ), making up 0.25% of the underlying holdings of the fund, as well as the iShares MSCI KLD 400 Social Index Fund ETF ( DSI ), where GLW makes up 0.30% of the underlying holdings of the fund. The annualized dividend paid by Corning Inc is $0.62/share, currently paid in quarterly installments, and its most recent dividend ex-date was on 02/24/2017. Below is a long-term dividend history chart for GLW, which the DividendRank report stressed as being of key importance. Indeed, studying a company's past dividend history can be of good help in judging whether the most recent dividend is likely to continue. makeArticleAd(); GLW operates in the Electronic Equipment Products sector, among companies like General Electric Co ( GE ), and Emerson Electric Co. ( EMR ). Top 25 Socially Responsible Dividend Stocks - Income To Feel Good About » The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.