Should you join him? Don't make snap decisions Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! (RTTNews.com) - Google Fiber, the high-speed Internet service of Alphabet Inc., is laying off several hundred employees as it transitions to wireless service instead of underground fiber-optic cables, according to media reports. In addition, Greg McCray will reportedly be the new CEO of Access, the Alphabet unit that controls Google Fiber and other small Internet projects. McCray is a long-time broadband executive and former CEO of Michigan-based Aero Communications Inc. He succeeds Craig Barratt, who stepped down in October 2016. However, the latest job cuts will reportedly affect more workers than the October layoffs. Several hundred Access employees are said to be moving to new jobs at Google or other Alphabet companies. Last August, the Wall Street Journal reported that Alphabet is rethinking its high-speed internet business after initial rollouts proved more expensive and time consuming than anticipated. Google's announcement in 2010 of its Fiber project sparked high expectations at a time when telephone companies were perceived as moving slowly in rolling out faster broadband service. More than 1,000 cities applied and Google began service in the Kansas City area in November 2012. For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com http://www.rttnews.com Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.