Published: Feb 16, 2017 9:47 a.m. ET Critical information for the U.S. trading day By Another day, another record for stocks? Few investors are ready to bet against that Wall Street headline showing up later. POTUS’s hint of a “massive” tax plan coming in the “not-too-distant future” helped the market to punch out a quarter-of-a-century feat. But the gains are about more than a promise of fiscal stimulus, say some. “The U.S. is seeing signs of ‘animal spirits ,’” said IG’s Chris Weston, pointing to a cluster of upbeat U.S. economic data. That, he says, is evidence that stock gains are being driven by something besides a presidential promise. Here’s more jungle talk from FXTM chief market strategist Hussen Sayed, who says you can talk bubbles all day long, but be warned that “bubbles may grow bigger, even much bigger, before they burst, if animal spirits continue to drive the rally.” Note, though, that other ideas on the rally’s driver are out there — like a $17 billion trade gone wrong . One person has no doubt, even if his factoids were flawed : Stock market hits new high with longest winning streak in decades. Great level of confidence and optimism - even before tax plan rollout! On to our call of the day from the The Big Breakout blog , where author SnufflesTrading notes how gold’s behavior hasn’t been behaving in a traditional manner. Gold would normally move in the opposite direction of stocks, but right now it’s up about 7.3% for the year so far, while the S P 500 is up around 5%. The blogger maintains “gold is telling the world something” right now, and seems to be among those who don’t quite buy all the market enthusiasm right now. “I believe that gold is hinting that the market is very overvalued. As the market has inflated up, gold has also risen (a lot) and is up year to date in 17’ more than the SPX,” he said in follow-up comments via email. “After the election and 2016 longs were unwound, gold has come back to a fair value and silver is leading the charge. This is very positive price action...” he says, providing this chart: “As long as gold is above $1,200, it is a long. Over $1,300 starts a move to $1,600 gold. I think we see $1,450 this year, and I think gold can smell the BS in the market right now,” says the blogger. Gold bugs, rejoice. Now, if you look at a year-to-date chart of select assets (h/t The Daily Shot ), it’s pretty clear that gold hasn’t done too shabby at all — on at three-month basis it’s up just over 1% — so naturally some may question another push higher for gold. Note that another metal, copper, is currently in the lead: The Dow industrials DJIA, +0.04% , S P SPX, -0.09%  and Nasdaq Composite COMP, -0.08%  closed at records for a fifth-straight session Wednesday. Read: Stock-market investors are already thinking about Nasdaq 6,000 The dollar DXY, -0.03%  is taking a hit . Gold GCH7, -0.19%  is aiming for some repeat gains , and crude CLH7, +0.11%  is moving up . Asia ADOW, -0.38%  was mixed, with the Nikkei NIK, -0.60%  dropping on yen strength. Europe SXXP, -0.37% stocks have snapped a 7-session win streak . See Market Snapshot for the latest action. Check out: Yellen may have offered the clearest explanation for the stock market’s record run Macro momentum has been a sharp driver for global equity markets, but be warned, it is probably as good as it gets right now. That’s according to Sebastian Raedler and the team at Deutsche Bank in a note to clients. Their chart of global macro surprises — what they say is the “most timely gauge of global economic momentum” — is in the top 5% of the historical range, according to the analysts. “On the five occasions it has risen to current levels in the past, it has typically faded back to zero over the following months. This would be consistent with a 5% correction in global equities,” said Raedler. In another chart, they take a look at the level of complacency in the market right now: Jobless claims climbed 5,000 but remain at exceedingly low levels. Housing starts dipped 2.6%, while building permits climbed 4.6% . The Philly Fed survey was impressive, hitting a 33-year high . Read: Trump rally as much about real economy as hopes for stimulus Cisco CSCO, +2.38%  is up after beating forecasts and announcing a dividend lift. Here’s what CFO Kelly Kramer told MarketWatch about those results . Duke Energy DUK, +2.76%   swung to a loss , pressured by rising expenses, though adjusted earnings met Wall Street forecasts. Valeant VRX, -3.80%  is up 3% after its psoriasis drug gets FDA approval. Alphabet’s GOOGL, +0.58%   high-speed internet unit Google Fiber got a new CEO executive on Wednesday, and laid off hundreds of workers . In case you missed it, here’s Tesla CEO Elon Musk’s shout-out to a hero owner in Germany: In appreciation, Tesla is providing all repair costs free of charge and expedited. https://t.co/D68HNJcCoQ Meanwhile, Tesla shares have been on a tear since the close of the SolarCity deal. Check out a preview of earnings coming up next week. Time Warner TWX, +0.07%   shareholders almost unanimously voted Wednesday to approve AT T’s T, +0.32%   proposed $85.4 billion merger. Opinion: 20 companies that have met a high bar this earnings season $19.5 billion to $22.2 billion — That’s where Snap Inc., Snapchat’s parent, has set its valuation ahead of an initial public offering like to take place next month. Even on the low end of that range, it would be the biggest U.S.-listed tech IPO since Alibaba’s in 2014. “Things that bedevil us — traffic accidents, bad diagnoses in the medical system — are going to be much better.” — That’s Eric Schmidt, executive chairman of Google parent Alphabet. Schmidt was speaking at a RSA cybersecurity conference in San Francisco about the future benefits of artificial intelligence. Worrying about AI robots turning on humans? He said our biggest worry is each other. Small businesses get ready to strike Thursday for #ADayWithoutImmigrants The FBI has released files on its Trump apartment discrimination probe in the ‘70s Nokia’s indestructible mobile could be ready for a comeback 48 Jewish centers received 60 bomb threats in January Here’s what Google’s CEO told a 7-year-old who wrote asking for a job. Special request addition from MarketWatch’s Victor Reklaitis: Congratulations to #Lithuania on your Independence Day. Thank you for being great friends, neighbors and #NATO Allies! pic.twitter.com/igXLdcX0Fb Oh, and... When the world was one. The looted left foot of Zeus returned to the National Museum of #Afghanistan where it belongs. pic.twitter.com/QOlraHgH9E Need to Know starts early and is updated until the opening bell, but sign up here to get it delivered once to your email box. Be sure to check the Need to Know item. The emailed version will be sent out at about 7:30 a.m. Eastern. Or Follow MarketWatch on Twitter or Facebook . Barbara Kollmeyer is an editor for MarketWatch in Madrid. Follow her on Twitter @bkollmeyer. Barbara Kollmeyer is an editor for MarketWatch in Madrid. Follow her on Twitter @bkollmeyer. Join the conversation Copyright 2017 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved. By using this site you agree to the Terms of Service , Privacy Policy , and Cookie Policy . Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use . Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data delayed per exchange requirements. S P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones Company, Inc. All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.