Published: Feb 16, 2017 10:37 a.m. ET California leads in innovation among the 50 U.S. states By It may not be the most prosperous nor the smartest country on earth, but the U.S. leaves the rest of world in the dust in one important area—innovation. The map of the most innovative countries —as measured by the number of patents filed between 1977 to 2015—shows that when it comes to new ideas and technology, the U.S. is in a league of its own. It is so far ahead of other competitors, in fact, that many U.S. states eclipse bigger nations. “This patent system has been a major engine of technological progress, from the 19th century to this day. It remains especially relevant for hi-tech businesses, where the ability to capitalize on innovation means the difference between success and failure,” writes Raul Amoros at HowMuch.net . Not surprisingly, California, home to Silicon Valley and tech behemoths Apple Inc. AAPL, -0.12%   and Alphabet Inc.’s GOOGL, +0.58% GOOG, +0.63%  Google, accounts for a lion’s share of patents filed by the U.S., represented by the giant cluster in the middle of the map. On its own, California is more innovative than Germany. New York is second among the 50 states while Texas checks in at third. “The fact that the 10 ranking states in the U.S. for holding patents beat all but the first of the next ten patent-holding countries says a lot about American leadership in this field,” said Amoros. Globally, Japan is the most innovative after the U.S., followed by Germany, South Korea and Taiwan. China, whose economy is projected to catch up and surpass the U.S. in the next decade, still has some work to do when it comes to innovation, showing up at 12th place between Israel and Sweden. Sue Chang is a MarketWatch reporter in San Francisco. You can follow her on Twitter at @SueChangMW. Sue Chang is a MarketWatch reporter in San Francisco. You can follow her on Twitter at @SueChangMW. Join the conversation Copyright 2017 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved. By using this site you agree to the Terms of Service , Privacy Policy , and Cookie Policy . Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use . Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data delayed per exchange requirements. S P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones Company, Inc. All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.