BREAKING:  Dow, S P 500 Stay Down; Nasdaq Inches Into Positive Ground Need to register? Current subscribers register here . Soros Fund Management, which is chaired by George Soros, bought shares of Delta Air Lines, Alphabet and Goldman Sachs in Q4, among other moves. (AP) George Soros took stakes in Facebook ( FB ) and Dow component Goldman Sachs ( GS ) in the fourth quarter, while Appaloosa cut its stake in Apple ( AAPL ), and both followed Warren Buffett's  Berkshire Hathaway ( BKRB ) in appearing to find a bargain in airlines.  Here's a look at how some big investors managed their portfolios in the last quarter of last year. Soros Fund Management bought 353,686 shares in Facebook and bulked up its stake in Alphabet ( GOOGL ) by nearly 60% to 20,200 shares, according to a regulatory filing out late Tuesday. Soros also increased his T-Mobile ( TMUS ) stake to 685,700 shares. Soros bought 62,100 shares in Goldman Sachs. Dan Loeb's Third Point last week disclosed that it had scooped up shares of Goldman, Bank of America ( BAC ) and JPMorgan Chase ( JPM ). Bank stocks have risen on greater expectations of lighter regulations, higher interest rates and greater volatility, which Goldman's trading desk could benefit from in particular. Soros also took a 40,000-share stake in Delta Air Lines ( DAL ), but dropped United Airlines ( UAL ). Shares of Apple ended regular trading up 0.4% to 135.51 on the stock market today , after hitting a record high yesterday . Facebook fell 0.3% to 133.44, while Goldman Sachs rose 0.4% to 250.54. Delta climbed 2.6% to 51.17, American rose 2.1% to 47.54, and United gained 2.7% to 75.75. IBD'S TAKE: Even as big investors flocked to the airlines last year, Cowen analysts last month said shares of airlines could be "due for a break" after taking off in Q4.   Meanwhile, Soros dropped Activision Blizzard ( ATVI ),  Herbalife ( HLF ), Harley Davidson ( HOG ), PepsiCo ( PEP ) and JCPenney ( JCP ). He also dissolved his stake in Nordstrom ( JWN ) Soros also offloaded his position in consumer-care products giant  Procter Gamble ( PG ), which got a lift Tuesday after activist investor Trian took a more than $3 billion stake in the company. Hedge fund Appaloosa Management increased its stake in Facebook by 47% to 2.2 million shares. The fund also upped its holdings in Qualcomm ( QCOM ) and more than doubled its stake in Southwest ( LUV ). Appaloosa also took a 160,000-share stake in United Airlines. The fund loaded up on the health sector, taking new stakes in companies like  Bristol-Myers Squibb ( BMY ), Centene ( CNC ), McKesson ( MCK ) and  Pfizer ( PFE ). It also took a new stake in JCPenney. Appaloosa cut its position in Apple by 350,000 shares, slashed its stake in Yahoo ( YHOO ) and rid itself of Bank of America and General Motors ( GM ). Along with boosting its stake in Apple, David Einhorn's Greenlight Capital dissolved its stake in Take-Two Interactive ( TTWO ), U.S. Steel ( X ) and Michael Kors ( KORS ). Like Buffett, Greenlight also took a stake in Monsanto ( MON ). But the moves by Soros and Appaloosa into airlines are notable in that they could signal other big investors are following Buffett, who announced Q3 stakes in the sector last year. Buffett, after years of avoiding the airlines , has come around to the industry. Airlines last year showed more signs of discipline, and the wave of consolidation over the past several years has kept the major airlines relatively insulated from new competition. "When we launched on the sector late last year, we found most investors generally in agreement that airlines represented deep value," Barclays analyst Brandon Oglenski wrote in a research note dated Tuesday. "The biggest question remains: when will the market and, more importantly, large long-term investors begin to care? We think tonight's Berkshire Hathaway 13F will go a long way to attract sector interest." RELATED: Airline Stocks Tumble On Fears Capacity May Creep Back Up Delta, American, United Go Guns Blazing Into Battle Of The Atlantic JPMorgan Sets Fresh High, Goldman Hits Highest Since 2007 On Yellen The Google Home smart speakers have added features that will compete with Amazon's Echo home speakers. (EPA/Newscom) 12:16 PM ET Google has expanded its grocery delivery business to fresh produce and set up online ordering through its smart home system,... 12:16 PM ET Google has expanded its grocery delivery business to fresh produce... The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association recommends that bond markets shutter on Monday as well. (AP) FANG CEOs Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, Reed Hastings and Larry Page. (AP) Find the broker that's right for you with IBD's annual list of the Best Online Brokers. Get 4 free weeks of the IBD Digital edition plus access to IBD s exclusive market analysis, proprietary stock ratings and interactive tools. Stay on top of the market with IBD s exclusive videos. You will find the latest news, market analysis, and education to help you become a more successful investor. Get the most out of IBD s products and features by learning the CAN SLIM Investing System and staying in sync with the market trend. Notice: Information contained herein is not and should not be construed as an offer, solicitation, or recommendation to buy or sell securities. The information has been obtained from sources we believe to be reliable; however no guarantee is made or implied with respect to its accuracy, timeliness, or completeness. Authors may own the stocks they discuss. The information and content are subject to change without notice. *Real-time prices by Bats®. Volume delayed. Real-time quote and/or trade prices are not sourced from all markets. © 2000-2017 Investor's Business Daily, Inc. All rights reserved