Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! What happened Shares of MDC Partners (NASDAQ: MDCA) jumped higher after Goldman Sachs (NYSE: GS) announced a 15% stake in the struggling advertising company. As of 10:49 a.m. EST, the stock was up 33.3% on the news. So what The famed investment bank injected $95 million into MDC Partners for a stake in the form of nonvoting convertible preferred shares, and Bradley Gross, a managing director at Goldman Sachs, will join MDC's board. The agreement comes as MDC stock tumbled last year on mounting financial losses and as the company said last November that it would seek help from advisor LionTree to evaluate its financial and capital structure strategy. makeArticleAd(); MDC Partners CEO Scott Kauffman said, "We are extremely pleased to be partnering with Goldman Sachs. Their investment in MDC affirms the value of our world-class agency portfolio, strengthens our balance sheet, and validates a solid finish to 2016 and our prospects going forward." Image source: MDC Partners. Now what As Kauffman indicates, the Goldman Sachs investment does two things for MDC Partners. First, it will have an advisor to help it revamp itself, which many companies would normally pay for. Second, it's a sign that Goldman sees value in the company, which owns several ad agencies including Crispin Porter + Bogusky and 72andSunny. Goldman said it was "excited to partner with MDC to help drive growth and innovation in the marketing and communications industry," indicating that the bank has no intention of seeking a sale, though that remains a possibility if it continues to struggle. Investors will learn more when MDC reports fourth-quarter earnings on Feb. 27. 10 stocks we like better than MDC Partners When investing geniuses David and Tom Gardner have a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor , has tripled the market.* David and Tom just revealed what they believe are the 10 best stocks for investors to buy right now... and MDC Partners wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys. Click here to learn about these picks! *Stock Advisor returns as of February 6, 2017 Jeremy Bowman has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy . The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.