Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! The Home Depot Inc. HD is slated to report fourth-quarter fiscal 2016 results on Feb 21, before the opening bell. Last quarter, the company delivered a positive earnings surprise of 1.3%, retaining its four-year-long trend of posting earnings beat. makeArticleAd(); In the trailing four quarters, the company has outperformed estimates with an average beat of 3.9%. Let's see how things are shaping up for this announcement. Home Depot, Inc. (The) Price and EPS Surprise Home Depot, Inc. (The) Price and EPS Surprise | Home Depot, Inc. (The) Quote Factors Influencing This Quarter Persistent housing market recovery, focus on improving customer experience, efforts to develop its eCommerce network and solid execution are the primary reasons behind Home Depot's splendid performance traditionally. Evidently, the company's shares have witnessed a fantastic growth of 20.3% in the past one year, outperforming the Zacks categorized Building Products - Retail/Wholesale industry which observed an increase of 15.8% in the same period. The company's inherent strength and sturdy performance in third-quarter 2016 encouraged management to raise earnings growth guidance for fiscal 2016. Home Depot envisions diluted earnings per share to grow about 15.9% year over year compared with $6.33 earned in fiscal 2015. Previously, the company had forecast earnings per share growth of 15.6% year over year. Moreover, Home Depot remains focused on developing merchandising tools and increasing investment in eCommerce to boost top-line growth and enhance market share. Further, it is on track to achieve long-term dividend payout, share repurchase and return on investment targets, given its disciplined capital allocation strategy. However, intense competition and a soft economic recovery may prove deterrents, pushing back home improvement projects. Further, the company's significant exposure to international markets makes it vulnerable to adverse currency fluctuations, posing a concern. Thus, we are not sure if this home improvement retailer can sustain its spectacular trend this time around. Earnings Whispers Our proven model does not conclusively show that Home Depot is likely to beat earnings this quarter. This is because a stock needs to have both a positive Earnings ESP and a Zacks Rank #1, 2 or 3 for this to happen. This is not the case here, as you will see below: Zacks ESP: Home Depot currently has an Earnings ESP of 0.00%. This is because both the Most Accurate estimate and the Zacks Consensus Estimate are pegged at $1.32. You can uncover the best stocks to buy or sell before they're reported with our Earnings ESP Filter . Zacks Rank: Home Depot's Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) increases the predictive power of ESP. However, the company's ESP of 0.00% makes surprise prediction difficult. We caution against stocks with a Zacks Rank #4 or 5 (Sell rated) going into the earnings announcement, especially when the company is seeing negative estimate revisions. Stocks that Warrant a Look Here are some companies you may want to consider as our model shows that these have the right combination of elements to post an earnings beat: Dean Foods Co. DF , scheduled to report earnings on Feb 16, currently has an Earnings ESP of +2.44% and a Zacks Rank #3. Costco Wholesale Corp. COST , slated to report earnings on Mar 2, currently has an Earnings ESP of +0.74% and a Zacks Rank #3. Dollar Tree Inc. DLTR , expected to release earnings on Mar 7, has an Earnings ESP of +0.75% and a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy). You can see the complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here . The Best Place to Start Your Stock Search Today, you are invited to download the full list of 220 Zacks Rank #1 """"Strong Buy"""" stocks - absolutely free of charge. Since 1988, Zacks Rank #1 stocks have nearly tripled the market, with average gains of +26% per year. Plus, you can access the list of portfolio-killing Zacks Rank #5 """"Strong Sells"""" and other private research. See these stocks free Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report Home Depot, Inc. (The) (HD): Free Stock Analysis Report Dean Foods Company (DF): Free Stock Analysis Report Dollar Tree, Inc. (DLTR): Free Stock Analysis Report Costco Wholesale Corporation (COST): Free Stock Analysis Report To read this article on Zacks.com click here. Zacks Investment Research The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.