It’s important to look at valuation multiples before deciding to enter or exit a stock. Valuation multiples are driven by perceived growth, risk and uncertainties, and investors’ willingness to pay. There are various multiples available to assess the valuation of a stock. For this analysis, we’ll use the PE (price-to-earnings) ratio because of Home Depot’s ( HD ) high earnings visibility. The forward PE ratio is calculated by dividing the current share price by the EPS (earnings per share) forecast for the next 12 months. The rise in the housing price index, an improving US economy, and HD’s better-than-expected 3Q16 earnings seem to have raised investors’ confidence in Home Depot. These factors could have led to the rise in Home Depot stock and PE multiple. As of February 13, 2017, Home Depot was trading at a PE multiple of 19.5x compared to 18.3x before the announcement of its 3Q16 earnings. With higher margins and revenue growth, Home Depot has been trading at a higher multiple than its peers. When growth expectations are higher, the market tends to value companies at higher multiples. By comparison, Lowe’s ( LOW ), Bed Bath Beyond ( BBBY ), and Williams-Sonoma ( WSM ) are trading at PE multiples of 16.3x, 8.7x, and 12.9x, respectively. To improve its same-store sales growth, Home Depot is focusing on enhancing customer experience by implementing its COM (customer order management) system and its BODFS (buy online deliver from store) system. If these initiatives fail to generate expected sales, more expenses due to the implementation of these initiatives could put pressure on the company’s margins, thus lowering its EPS. For the next four quarters, analysts are expecting Home Depot’s EPS to rise 12.4%. The company’s current share price may have already factored in this growth. If its results come in lower, its stock could face selling pressures, which could bring its PE multiple down, and vice versa. Next, let’s see what analysts are recommending for Home Depot. Quote data by Xignite