PALO ALTO, CA--(Marketwired - Feb 13, 2017) - At the RSA Conference 2017, HP Inc. ( NYSE : HPQ ) today announced the addition of HP Sure Click technology to protect customers from web-based security threats. Building on the security solutions found on the world's most secure and manageable PCs 1 , HP worked closely with Bromium Inc. to create a solution that helps organizations protect themselves from malware and ransomware accidently downloaded through an employee's internet browsing activity. HP Sure Click will first be available on the award-winning HP EliteBook x360 1030 G2 2 . "With 81 percent of IT security managers citing unsecure web browsers as a primary attack vector, organizations are challenged to protect themselves against this ever-evolving threat 3 ," said Alex Cho, vice president and general manager, Commercial PCs, Personal Systems, HP Inc. "By partnering with Bromium to create HP Sure Click, we provide exclusive hardware-enforced security for web browsers as a standard feature, giving both users and businesses the freedom to browse confidently." According to a recent survey of 400 CIOs, 68 percent say that attackers have become more sophisticated, making it difficult for users to differentiate between safe and unsafe sites 4 . HP Sure Click is designed to shift the responsibility from the end user to the PC. With HP Sure Click, many types of web-based attacks originating from unintentional website visits where ransomware or malware may be hidden are automatically prevented. When a user starts a browsing session in Internet Explorer or Chromium™, every site visited triggers HP Sure Click. For example, each time a user visits a website, HP Sure Click creates a hardware-based isolated browsing session, which eliminates the ability of one website from infecting other tabs or the system itself. "HP's philosophy and approach to security is a natural fit with our own mission to stop cybercrime and keep the Internet safe for everyone," explains Ian Pratt, co-founder and president, Bromium Inc. "We are thrilled about our strategic relationship, and we're excited to have Bromium's virtualization-based security used as a platform for HP Sure Click to deliver secure browsing built into HP's world-class devices." HP Sure Click will first be introduced as a web download for the HP EliteBook x360 1030 G2 in Spring 2017 and will be available as a standard feature on Elite PC platforms launching in the second half of the year. For more information about HP's security and manageability features in its Elite PCs and the security, visit www.hp.com/go/clientsecurity . About HP HP Inc. creates technology that makes life better for everyone, everywhere. Through our portfolio of printers, PCs, mobile devices, solutions, and services, we engineer experiences that amaze. More information about HP Inc. is available at http://www.hp.com . Forward-Looking Statements This news release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries ("HP") may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to any projections of net revenue, margins, expenses, effective tax rates, net earnings, net earnings per share, cash flows, benefit plan funding, deferred tax assets, share repurchases, currency exchange rates or other financial items; any projections of the amount, timing or impact of cost savings or restructuring and other charges; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations, including the execution of restructuring plans and any resulting cost savings, revenue or profitability improvements; any statements concerning the expected development, performance, market share or competitive performance relating to products or services; any statements regarding current or future macroeconomic trends or events and the impact of those trends and events on HP and its financial performance; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include the need to address the many challenges facing HP's businesses; the competitive pressures faced by HP's businesses; risks associated with executing HP's strategy; the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events; the need to manage third-party suppliers and the distribution of HP's products and the delivery of HP's services effectively; the protection of HP's intellectual property assets, including intellectual property licensed from third parties; risks associated with HP's international operations; the development and transition of new products and services and the enhancement of existing products and services to meet customer needs and respond to emerging technological trends; the execution and performance of contracts by HP and its suppliers, customers, clients and partners; the hiring and retention of key employees; integration and other risks associated with business combination and investment transactions; the results of the restructuring plans, including estimates and assumptions related to the cost (including any possible disruption of HP's business) and the anticipated benefits of the restructuring plans; the resolution of pending investigations, claims and disputes; and other risks that are described in HP's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2015, HP's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended January 31, 2016, April 30, 2016 and July 31, 2016, and HP's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements. HP's Investor Relations website at http://www.hp.com/investor/home contains a significant amount of information about HP, including financial and other information for investors. HP encourages investors to visit its website from time to time, as information is updated and new information is posted. © 2017 HP Inc. The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for HP Inc. products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements accompanying such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty. HP Inc. shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein. 1 Based on HP's unique and comprehensive security capabilities at no additional cost and HP Manageability Integration Kit's management of every aspect of a PC including hardware, BIOS and software management using Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager among vendors with 1M unit annual sales as of November 2016 on HP Elite PCs with 7 th Gen Intel® Core® Processors, Intel® integrated graphics, and Intel® WLAN. 2 Coming soon as a web download for the HP EliteBook x360 G2 on www.hp.com/go/clientmanagement and supports Microsoft® Internet Explorer and Chromium™. 3 The Challenge of Preventing Browser-Borne Malware , Ponemon Institute, sponsored by Spikes, February 2015. 4 Study of 400 CIOs for large enterprises in the United States, United Kingdom and Germany , conducted by Vanson Bourne on behalf of Bromium® Inc., January 24, 2017. Cmdr: It’s time to get Russia out of Americas White House!
Trump and ALL of his bunch have to go! 484