Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! For Immediate Release Chicago, IL - February 09, 2017 - Zacks Equity Research highlights Intevac (NASDAQ: IVAC - Free Report ) as the Bull of the Day and HP Inc (NYSE: HPQ - Free Report ) as the Bear of the Day. In addition, Zacks Equity Research provides analysis on Twitter (NYSE: TWTR - Free Report ), Facebook (NASDAQ: FB - Free Report ) and Google (NASDAQ: GOOGL - Free Report ). Here is a synopsis of all five stocks: Bull of the Day : Intevac (NASDAQ: IVAC - Free Report ) recently reported a very strong quarter at the start of February. The company posted EPS of $0.13 when the Zacks Consensus Estimate was calling for $0.07. That $0.06 beat was good for a positive earnings surprise of 85%. That big beat put the stock on a lot of radar screen but it is the Bull of the Day for another, much more important reason. Description Intevac makes vacuum deposition equipment for various thin-film applications, and digital night-vision technologies and products. Intevac, Inc. was founded in 1990 and is headquartered in Santa Clara, California. Growth And Value Growth investors and value investors are looking for different things and usually a good growth stock is not a value. IVAC posted revenue growth of 76% on a year over years basis in the most recent report. That followed growth of 23% in the previous period. On the value side, the company noted that book value at the end of the quarter as $71M, and with the stock trading at just under $200M in market cap we have a 2.8x price to book multiple. Usually, value investors are looking at stocks that have a price to book multiple of less than 3x, and IVAC fits the bill. Follow Brian Bolan on Twitter @BBolan1 Why I Like It This stock is the Bull of the Day because of the tremendous increase in earnings estimates. Over the last five or so years of being at Zacks I don't think I have ever seen an estimate increase like this from a company as small as this. Bear of the Day : HP Inc (NYSE: HPQ - Free Report ) has slipped to a Zacks Rank #5 (Strong Sell) with earnings just a few weeks away. This is not a good signal for investors that want to trade around earnings and it could extend the stock's losing streak to 3 - as in the number of times the stock has traded lower in the session following the report. HP Inc is part of the old Hewlett-Packard and is still a widely held stock. Earnings History The earnings history is pretty good of late, with a couple of beats of the Zacks Consensus Estimate and a few meets. On the top line I see only one miss in the last five quarters, so that too is a good thing to see. Estimates Here is where we separate the pretenders from the contenders. Estimates for HP Inc have fallen of late, moving from $1.62 in August down to $1.60 at the current level. That doesn't seem like enough to merit a Zacks Rank #5 (Strong Sell) but then I looked at the next fiscal year. The fiscal 2018 estimate has slipped from $1.68 to $1.65, and again this is another small move. Going Forward This stock is a probably the "softest" Zacks Rank #5 (Strong Sell) that I have ever seen. That said, a move to a #5 before earnings is not a good signal. Additional content: A Few Things to Know Ahead of Snap, Inc.'s Spring IPO Snap Inc., the parent company of the disappearing messaging app Snapchat, on Thursday, Feb. 2 filed its highly anticipated IPO. The five-year-old California-based technology company has evolved its business model in the last few years, and its user base is made up of the coveted 18-to-34-year-old demographic. But does Snapchat's popularity with American Millennials make Snap's IPO worth its estimated $20 to $25 billion valuation come March? The short answer: no one knows. Brief Backstory Twitter (NYSE: TWTR - Free Report ) went public in Fall 2013, and it has failed to meet the expectations of its similarly lofty initial valuation ever since. So, it might be best to temper expectations for Snap Inc. But here are some facts to help put the next big tech IPO into perspective. Facebook (NASDAQ: FB - Free Report ) tried to buy Snapchat for $3 billion cash in 2013. Evan Spiegel, Snapchat's co-founder and CEO, turned the offer down. Since then, the social media giant has focused on competing with and mimicking Snapchat in the race to own the under-34 demographic online. Snapchat began as a disappearing picture and video messaging app. And it quickly became popular with young people. Over the past few years, behind an ever growing and loaded group of top executives , Snap has focused on user engagement, increasing advertising revenue, and innovation - its prospectus proudly proclaimed, " Snap Inc. is a camera company ." Advertising Dollars In the last two years, Facebook shifted its focus to video and live video, in part because it saw Snapchat's success. But more importantly, because that is where the advertising dollars are shifting. As young people shift away from regular linear television viewing, advertisers need new outlets to reach that coveted audience. Nielsen reported a 37% decline in the amount of time 18-to-24-year-olds watched TV between 2010 and 2016. And many reports indicate that a larger percentage of advertising budgets will be spent online by 2020. Snapchat has partnerships with the four major North American professional sports leagues, MLB, the NFL, the NHL and the NBA. The company also has content and sponsorship deals with major media outlets such as ESPN, CNN, and Buzzfeed. It also runs standard video ads spread out between users' content. The company still sells most of its ad space in-house. But Snap announced it updated its ad platform to allow marketers the ability to purchase ads in real-time through automated ad-buying technology used heavily by Facebook and Google (NASDAQ: GOOGL - Free Report ), and now dominates the space. This will give Snap the opportunity to increase its ad revenue - the key to its profitability User Base Millennials use the app, unlike Twitter or Facebook. Snapchat users send and post photos or videos that never last longer than 10 seconds. Time sensitivity has fostered massive active user engagement, which is key to its long-term profitability. A portion of Snap's IPO pitch focused on its ability to engage with the 18-to-34-year-old demographic. This focus is due in large part to the fact that Snapchat's user base and global reach is microscopic compared to Facebook. "If we fail to retain current users or add new users, or if our users engage less with Snapchat, our business would be seriously harmed," the filing noted. Yet, Snapchat users spend an average of 25 to 30 minutes a day on the app, while Facebook users, which include Instagram and Messenger, spend 50 minutes. Snap Inc. closed 2016 with 161 million daily users, and its average revenue per user rose to $1.05 in the fourth quarter from $0.31 a year ago. The company reported revenue of $404.5 million. Still, it reported a loss of $514.6 million, up from a loss of $373 million the year before. Facebook made $7 per user in the fourth quarter 2016 from its 1.2 billion users. The company reported revenue of $27 billion. Snapchat added 50 million daily active users in 2016 . But user growth curtailed near the end of the year, adding just five million users in the fourth quarter. The company's offering last week noted that this was due to competition. One such competitor is Instagram, which now allows users access to similar disappearing video messaging features. Last quarter was Snapchat's smallest quarter-over-quarter user jump in three years. New Endeavors Snap recently introduced its first product, Spectacles, in Fall 2016. The new sunglasses have video cameras that allow users to post directly to Snapchat. As of now, Spectacles aren't widely available. The company has grown its popularity through many unique and innovative partnerships. It recently partnered with the BBC for the release of the U.K.-based network's Planet Earth II . Partnerships outside of the U.S. will be key as the company tries to expand and grow Snapchat's user base. Snap is set to issue only nonvoting shares come March. Despite Snap's experienced leadership team, Spiegel and co-founder and CTO Bobby Murphy will maintain a vast majority of the company's voting shares when it goes public. Spiegel, 26, and Murphy, 28, currently hold roughly 90% of the voting shares. If either were to die, or become unable to perform his role, the other could control almost all of the voting power. Just Released - Driverless Cars: Your Roadmap to Mega-Profits Today In this latest Special Report, Zacks' Aggressive Growth Strategist Brian Bolan explores a full-blown technological breakthrough in the making - autonomous cars. He also spotlights 8 stocks with tremendous gain potential to feed off this phenomenon. Click to see the stocks right now Get today's Zacks #1 Stock of the Day with your free subscription to Profit from the Pros newsletter: About the Bull and Bear of the Day Every day, the analysts at Zacks Equity Research select two stocks that are likely to outperform (Bull) or underperform (Bear) the markets over the next 3-6 months. About Zacks Equity Research Zacks Equity Research provides the best of quantitative and qualitative analysis to help investors know what stocks to buy and which to sell for the long-term. Continuous analyst coverage is provided for a universe of 1,150 publicly traded stocks. Our analysts are organized by industry which gives them keen insights to developments that affect company profits and stock performance. Recommendations and target prices are six-month time horizons. Strong Stocks that Should Be in the News Many are little publicized and fly under the Wall Street radar. They're virtually unknown to the general public. Yet today's 220 Zacks Rank #1 "Strong Buys" were generated by the stock-picking system that has nearly tripled the market from 1988 through 2015. Its average gain has been a stellar +26% per year. See these high-potential stocks free . Get the full Report on IVAC - FREE Get the full Report on HPQ - FREE Get the full Report on TWTR - FREE Get the full Report on FB - FREE Get the full Report on GOOGL - FREE Follow us on Twitter: https://twitter.com/zacksresearch Join us on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/home.php#/pages/Zacks-Investment-Research/57553657748?ref=ts Zacks Investment Research is under common control with affiliated entities (including a broker-dealer and an investment adviser), which may engage in transactions involving the foregoing securities for the clients of such affiliates. Media Contact Zacks Investment Research 800-767-3771 ext. 9339 support@zacks.com https://www.zacks.com Zacks.com provides investment resources and informs you of these resources, which you may choose to use in making your own investment decisions. Zacks is providing information on this resource to you subject to the Zacks "Terms and Conditions of Service" disclaimer. www.zacks.com/disclaimer . Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Inherent in any investment is the potential for loss. This material is being provided for informational purposes only and nothing herein constitutes investment, legal, accounting or tax advice, or a recommendation to buy, sell or hold a security. No recommendation or advice is being given as to whether any investment is suitable for a particular investor. It should not be assumed that any investments in securities, companies, sectors or markets identified and described were or will be profitable. All information is current as of the date of herein and is subject to change without notice. Any views or opinions expressed may not reflect those of the firm as a whole. Zacks Investment Research does not engage in investment banking, market making or asset management activities of any securities. These returns are from hypothetical portfolios consisting of stocks with Zacks Rank = 1 that were rebalanced monthly with zero transaction costs. These are not the returns of actual portfolios of stocks. The S P 500 is an unmanaged index. Visit https://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release. Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report makeArticleAd(); Intevac, Inc. (IVAC): Free Stock Analysis Report HP Inc. (HPQ): Free Stock Analysis Report Twitter, Inc. (TWTR): Free Stock Analysis Report Facebook, Inc. (FB): Free Stock Analysis Report Alphabet Inc. (GOOGL): Free Stock Analysis Report To read this article on Zacks.com click here. Zacks Investment Research The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.