Leading PC manufacturer, HP Inc. HPQ and Bromium Inc. have signed a new agreement aimed at providing secured Internet search experience to users. Following the agreement, HP will now offer a security solution named HP Sure Click for advanced protection against web-based security threats. With its in-depth technological expertise, Sure Click technology is well poised to provide advanced security solutions to organizations from malware and ransomware attacks, in which hackers attach malicious software to emails. The new solution is designed to protect important information and mitigate attacks and hacker incidents. HP Sure Click will be first offered to end users in spring 2017 as a web download for the HP EliteBook x360 1030 G2. According to Alex Cho, vice president and general manager, Commercial PCs, Personal Systems, HP Inc. "By partnering with Bromium to create HP Sure Click, we provide exclusive hardware-enforced security for web browsers as a standard feature, giving both users and businesses the freedom to browse confidently." The new launch is a strategic move by HP to capitalize on the growing need for advanced cyber protection tools in a market that is characterized by rapidly-expanding dependence on interconnected and enterprise operations. As per data from the recent survey of 400 CIOs, 68% opine that attacks on personal information have made it problematic for users to discern which site is safe and which is not. HP Sure Click helps customers to assess the level of vulnerabilities, detect threats and mitigate intellectual property theft. Security is the buzzword in the cyber space. Hacking and virus attacks are quite common incidents. Thus, the role of such software solutions is crucial for protecting computers and sensitive data while surfing the Internet. The partnership of HP and Bromium is aimed at providing Internet users the security to surf and work freely. Last Words HP’s efforts to turn around the business have been commendable. The company is working on product innovation and differentiation as well as enhancing the capabilities of the printing business to stabilize the top line. Furthermore, looking at the data compiled by two independent research firms – Gartner and International Data Corporation – we believe that the downtrend in PC shipments showed signs of stabilization in fourth-quarter 2016, compared with the previous quarters. Notably, for HP, this was the third consecutive quarter of year-over-year shipment growth following five back-to-back quarters of underperformance. The company witnessed a 4.3% increase in PC shipments and raised its market share to 20.4% from 18.8% in the year-ago quarter. We believe that the spin-off from Hewlett-Packard Company and restructuring initiatives such as focus on product innovation, pricing, marketing and sales activities; divestment of non-core assets, and job cuts to lower costs, are finally paying off. The stock has gained approximately 70.3% over the last one year, outperforming the Zacks categorized Computer-Mini Computers industry’s return of 40.2%. Nonetheless, macroeconomic challenges and tepid IT spending remain near-term concerns. Competition from the likes of International Business Machines IBM and Apple AAPL add to its woes. Currently, HP carries a Zacks Rank #4 (Sell). A better-ranked stock in the technology sector is Seagate Technology plc STX, carrying a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy). You can see the complete list of today’s Zacks #1 Rank stocks here . Seagate has a long-term expected EPS growth rate of 8.17%. The Best Place to Start Your Stock Search Today, you are invited to download the full list of 220 Zacks Rank #1 """"Strong Buy"""" stocks – absolutely free of charge. Since 1988, Zacks Rank #1 stocks have nearly tripled the market, with average gains of +26% per year. Plus, you can access the list of portfolio-killing Zacks Rank #5 """"Strong Sells"""" and other private research. See these stocks free Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report HP Inc. (HPQ): Free Stock Analysis Report Seagate Technology PLC (STX): Free Stock Analysis Report International Business Machines Corporation (IBM): Free Stock Analysis Report Apple Inc. (AAPL): Free Stock Analysis Report To read this article on Zacks.com click here. Zacks Investment Research Cmdr: It’s time to get Russia out of Americas White House!
Trump and ALL of his bunch have to go! 484