Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! Leading PC manufacturer, HP Inc. HPQ and Bromium Inc. have signed a new agreement aimed at providing secured Internet search experience to users. Following the agreement, HP will now offer a security solution named HP Sure Click for advanced protection against web-based security threats. With its in-depth technological expertise, Sure Click technology is well poised to provide advanced security solutions to organizations from malware and ransomware attacks, in which hackers attach malicious software to emails. The new solution is designed to protect important information and mitigate attacks and hacker incidents. HP Sure Click will be first offered to end users in spring 2017 as a web download for the HP EliteBook x360 1030 G2. According to Alex Cho, vice president and general manager, Commercial PCs, Personal Systems, HP Inc. "By partnering with Bromium to create HP Sure Click, we provide exclusive hardware-enforced security for web browsers as a standard feature, giving both users and businesses the freedom to browse confidently." The new launch is a strategic move by HP to capitalize on the growing need for advanced cyber protection tools in a market that is characterized by rapidly-expanding dependence on interconnected and enterprise operations. As per data from the recent survey of 400 CIOs, 68% opine that attacks on personal information have made it problematic for users to discern which site is safe and which is not. HP Sure Click helps customers to assess the level of vulnerabilities, detect threats and mitigate intellectual property theft. Security is the buzzword in the cyber space. Hacking and virus attacks are quite common incidents. Thus, the role of such software solutions is crucial for protecting computers and sensitive data while surfing the Internet. The partnership of HP and Bromium is aimed at providing Internet users the security to surf and work freely. Last Words HP's efforts to turn around the business have been commendable. The company is working on product innovation and differentiation as well as enhancing the capabilities of the printing business to stabilize the top line. Furthermore, looking at the data compiled by two independent research firms - Gartner and International Data Corporation - we believe that the downtrend in PC shipments showed signs of stabilization in fourth-quarter 2016, compared with the previous quarters. Notably, for HP, this was the third consecutive quarter of year-over-year shipment growth following five back-to-back quarters of underperformance. The company witnessed a 4.3% increase in PC shipments and raised its market share to 20.4% from 18.8% in the year-ago quarter. We believe that the spin-off from Hewlett-Packard Company and restructuring initiatives such as focus on product innovation, pricing, marketing and sales activities; divestment of non-core assets, and job cuts to lower costs, are finally paying off. The stock has gained approximately 70.3% over the last one year, outperforming the Zacks categorized  Computer-Mini Computers  industry's return of 40.2%. Nonetheless, macroeconomic challenges and tepid IT spending remain near-term concerns. Competition from the likes of International Business Machines IBM and Apple AAPL add to its woes. Currently, HP carries a Zacks Rank #4 (Sell). A better-ranked stock in the technology sector is Seagate Technology plc STX , carrying a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy). You can see  the complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank stocks here . Seagate has a long-term expected EPS growth rate of 8.17%. The Best Place to Start Your Stock Search Today, you are invited to download the full list of 220 Zacks Rank #1 """"Strong Buy"""" stocks - absolutely free of charge. Since 1988, Zacks Rank #1 stocks have nearly tripled the market, with average gains of +26% per year. Plus, you can access the list of portfolio-killing Zacks Rank #5 """"Strong Sells"""" and other private research. See these stocks free The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.