Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! In recent trading, shares of HP Inc (Symbol: HPQ) have crossed above the average analyst 12-month target price of $15.82, changing hands for $16.04/share. When a stock reaches the target an analyst has set, the analyst logically has two ways to react: downgrade on valuation, or, re-adjust their target price to a higher level. Analyst reaction may also depend on the fundamental business developments that may be responsible for driving the stock price higher - if things are looking up for the company, perhaps it is time for that target price to be raised. There are 14 different analyst targets contributing to that average for HP Inc, but the average is just that - a mathematical average. There are analysts with lower targets than the average, including one looking for a price of $14.00. And then on the other side of the spectrum one analyst has a target as high as $18.00. The standard deviation is $1.234. makeArticleAd(); But the whole reason to look at the average HPQ price target in the first place is to tap into a "wisdom of crowds" effort, putting together the contributions of all the individual minds who contributed to the ultimate number, as opposed to what just one particular expert believes. And so with HPQ crossing above that average target price of $15.82/share, investors in HPQ have been given a good signal to spend fresh time assessing the company and deciding for themselves: is $15.82 just one stop on the way to an even higher target, or has the valuation gotten stretched to the point where it is time to think about taking some chips off the table? Below is a table showing the current thinking of the analysts that cover HP Inc: Recent HPQ Analyst Ratings Breakdown Current 1 Month Ago 2 Month Ago 3 Month Ago Strong buy ratings: 5 4 5 5 Buy ratings: 1 1 1 1 Hold ratings: 11 12 13 13 Sell ratings: 0 0 0 0 Strong sell ratings: 0 0 0 0 Average rating: 2.35 2.47 2.42 2.42 The average rating presented in the last row of the above table above is from 1 to 5 where 1 is Strong Buy and 5 is Strong Sell. This article used data provided by Zacks Investment Research via Quandl.com . Get the latest Zacks research report on HPQ - FREE . 10 ETFs With Most Upside To Analyst Targets » The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.