Hewlett Packard Enterprise Co. ( HPE ) today announced the introduction of HPE SecureData for Hadoop and IoT, designed to easily secure sensitive information generated and transmitted across Internet of Things (IoT) environments, with HPE Format-preserving Encryption (FPE). The Palo Alto, Calif.-based tech giant says the new solutions features “the industry’s first-to-market Apache NiFi integration with NIST standardized and FIPS compliant format-preserving encryption technology to protect IoT data at rest, in transit and in use.” (See also: HPE Acquires SimpliVity for $650 Million .) While recognizing the benefits of IoT adoption, HPE highlights a Gartner survey in which 35% of respondents named security as the top barrier to IoT success, more than the 32% which named cost and funding concerns as the biggest road block. “While IoT and big data analytics are driving new ways for organizations to improve efficiencies, identify new revenue streams, and innovate, they are also creating new attack vectors for leaking sensitive information to adversaries,” said Albert Biketi, Vice President and General Manager of HPE’s Data Security segment. “HPE SecureData enables business users to easily build data security in, delivering persistent protection in IoT and big data ecosystems, and allowing organizations to securely innovate.” The enterprise IT leader boasts its Apache NiFi integration, an open-source platform derived from the National Security Agency’s Niagarafiles project, which enables security and risk architects, as well as business users, to graphically design and easily manage data flows in their IoT or back-end environments. Further, HPE will expand its partnership with data intelligence software platform HortonWorks with the release of HPE SecureData for Hadoop and IoT. HPE’s new offerings demonstrate the firm’s larger initiative to target growth markets driven by the new hybrid IT ecosystem, wherein organizations spread their workflows and data traffic across a variety of infrastructures including on-premise data centers and cloud platforms. After HPE split from its PC and printing arm HP Inc. ( HPQ ) in 2015, the firm underwent a massive trim down in which it shed its software and enterprise IT services businesses. Led by CEO Meg Whitman, the company is now refocusing on core hardware segments and investing heavily in emerging markets ,including hyperconverged infrastructure, high-performance computing, application performance, cybersecurity, and other spaces concentrated around hybrid IT. (See also: HP Enterprise Finds New Focus in Hybrid Cloud .) Want to learn how to invest? Delivered twice a week, straight to your inbox.