Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! HP Inc (HPQ) has slipped to a Zacks Rank #5 (Strong Sell) with earnings just a few weeks away. This is not a good signal for investors that want to trade around earnings and it could extend the stock's losing streak to 3 - as in the number of times the stock has traded lower in the session following the report. HP Inc is part of the old Hewlett-Packard and is still a widely held stock. Earnings History The earnings history is pretty good of late, with a couple of beats of the Zacks Consensus Estimate and a few meets.  On the top line I see only one miss in the last five quarters, so that too is a good thing to see. Estimates Here is where we separate the pretenders from the contenders.  Estimates for HP Inc have fallen of late, moving from $1.62 in August down to $1.60 at the current level.  That doesn't seem like enough to merit a Zacks Rank #5 (Strong Sell) but then I looked at the next fiscal year. The fiscal 2018 estimate has slipped from $1.68 to $1.65, and again this is another small move. Going Forward This stock is a probably the "softest" Zacks Rank #5 (Strong Sell) that I have ever seen.  That said, a move to a #5 before earnings is not a good signal. Long-Term Buys You Won't See in the News To end on a positive note, you're invited to see the best long-term trades Zacks Research is uncovering today. These moves have double and triple-digit profit potential and are rarely available to the public. Starting now, you can look inside our stocks under $10, home run and value stock portfolios, plus more. Want a peek at this private information? Click here HP Inc. Price, Consensus and EPS Surprise | HP Inc. Quote The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.