(BI Intelligence) This story was delivered to BI Intelligence " Payments Briefing " subscribers. To learn more and subscribe, please click here . A new partnership between Visa and IBM Watson will give the firm’s Big Blue Watson IoT platform clients access to Visa payment services through the card network’s tokenization offerings. The partnership, which reflects a wider trend of payments moving into the IoT, could give Visa access to as many as 6,000 IoT client companies by allowing them to provision Visa tokenization into their devices, effectively turning those into point-of-sale (POS) terminals that allow users to pay on-the-go. In practice, this could create a number of new purchasing experiences. For example, a sensor in a user's car might alert them when the vehicle needs a part, and then allow them to order the part, pay for it, and schedule an appointment for installation through the car's dashboard, according to USA Today. Or, a pair of smart sneakers might track a user's running distance and — after a certain number of miles — remind them to buy a new pair, which they could do on-the-spot through a fitness tracker or app. Demand for connected device payments will likely rise as market availability increases. BI Intelligence expects the number of installed connected devices will hit 22.5 billion by 2021, up from 6.6 billion today. As those devices get more popular, it’s likely users will expect more robust functionality — including payment services — from them. In 2015, despite limited market availability, 19% of consumers were already very interested in connected device payments. By partnering with IBM, Visa will be able to move into this fast-growing space and fulfill this need as the market expands. That makes the partnership a smart play for Visa for two key reasons: The rapid expansion of the Internet of Things (IoT) offers payments companies an opportunity to expand beyond mobile phones, cards, and point-of-sale devices, to a broad and diverse ecosystem of internet-connected devices. We forecast that there will be 24 billion connected devices installed globally by 2020, up from nearly 7 billion today. And over 5 billion will be consumer connected devices by 2020, representing a massive expansion of touchpoints that could eventually offer payments functionality. BI Intelligence , Business Insider's premium research service, has compiled a detailed report that dives into the budding industry of connected device payments, providing a rundown of the stakeholders driving innovation in wearables, connected cars, and connected home devices. It also gauges the impact of new payment devices on different payments companies, along with how these devices could shift consumer purchasing behavior. Here are some of the key takeaways from the report: In full, the report: To get your copy of this invaluable guide, choose one of these options: The choice is yours. But however you decide to acquire this report, you’ve given yourself a powerful advantage in your understanding of connected device payments. More From Business Insider Cmdr: It’s time to get Russia out of Americas White House!
Trump and ALL of his bunch have to go! 484