Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! Cisco Systems Inc. CSCO reported second-quarter fiscal 2017 earnings (including stock-based compensation) of 53 cents per share, beating the Zacks Consensus Estimate by three cents. makeArticleAd(); Excluding stock-based compensation, earnings remained flat on a year-over-year basis at 57 cents, which was in line with the top end of management's guided range. Revenues declined 2.9% year over year to $11.58 billion and missed the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $11.59 billion. Revenues include SP Video CPE Business for both the periods. Excluding SP Video CPE Business, revenues decreased 2% from the year-ago quarter, in line with the low end of management's guided range. Cisco Systems, Inc. Price, Consensus and EPS Surprise Cisco Systems, Inc. Price, Consensus and EPS Surprise | Cisco Systems, Inc. Quote Segment Revenue Details On a year-over-year basis, products (73.3% of total revenue) were down 5.5% to $8.49 billion, while services (26.7%) increased 4.9% to $3.09 billion. Under the Product category, Collaboration, Wireless, Security and Other increased 4%, 3%, 14%, and 53%, respectively, on a year-over-year basis. However, this increase was partially offset by weak performance from Switching, NGN Routing, Data Center and Service Provider Video segments which decreased 5%, 10%, 4% and 41%, respectively. Geographically, on a year-over-year basis, revenues from the Americas, EMEA and APJC declined 4%, 1% and 4%, respectively. Total emerging markets declined 7% while the BRICs plus Mexico went down by 5%. In terms of customer segments enterprise inched up 1%, commercial grew 3%, public sector declined 6% and service provider dipped 1%. Operating Details Non-GAAP gross margin expanded 30 basis points (bps) from the year-ago quarter to 63.6% in the reported quarter. The expansion was primarily driven by higher service gross margin (up 210 bps). Operating expenses as percentage of revenues increased 40 bps to 35.6% primarily owing to increase in most of the expense line items. As percentage of revenues, Research and development (R D) and General and Administrative (G A) expenses increased 30 bps and 240 bps, respectively. However, Sales and Marketing (S M) expense remained flat on a year-over-year basis. As a result, operating margin (including stock-based compensation) contracted 20 bps to 28%. Cisco Systems Inc. - Earnings Surprise | FindTheBest Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Cisco exited the second quarter with cash and investments balance of almost $71.8 billion compared with $71 billion in the prior quarter. Cash cash equivalents and investments available in the U.S. at the end of quarter were $9.6 billion. Total debt (short term and long term) was $34.9 billion, slightly up from $34.8 billion at the end of previous quarter. Cisco raised quarterly dividend by 3 cents to 29 cents per share, to be paid on Apr 26, 2017. The company repurchased approximately 33 million shares of common stock under its stock repurchase program at an average price of $30.33 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $1.0 billion. As of Jan 28, 2017, Cisco had repurchased 4.7 billion shares for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $98.6 billion since the inception of the stock repurchase program. The remaining authorized amount under this program is approximately $13.4 billion. Guidance For third-quarter fiscal 2017, revenues are expected to decline in the range of 2% or remain flat on a year-over-year basis. Non-GAAP earnings are anticipated to be in the range 57-59 cents per share. The Zacks Consensus Estimate was pegged at 53 cents on revenue estimates of $11.87 billion. Gross margin is expected to be in the range of 63-64%, while operating margin is anticipated between 29% and 30% for the quarter. Our Take We believe that Cisco's expanding footprint in the rapidly growing security and data center market are promising. The company's security solutions continue to add customers, which is positive in our view. Although the transition from blade to rack server continues to hurt Data Center revenues, the collaboration with Microsoft's MSFT Azure is expected to drive growth going ahead. Further, the acquisition of AppDynamics is also positive in our view. Additionally, the company's partnerships with the likes of salesforce.com CRM and International Business Machines IBM will help it to gain significant traction in the cloud and Internet of Things (IoT) market space in the long run. Moreover, continued share buyback and dividend hikes are positive in our view. We note that Cisco has outperformed the Zacks Computer Networks industry in the last one year. While the stock gained 24.0%, the industry witnessed an increase of 23.2%. We expect the aforesaid factors to drive upside going forward. However, the modest second-quarter results reflected intensifying competition from several smaller players in the networking segments, slowing order growth from service providers and challenges in the emerging markets. We believe that third-quarter revenue guidance continues to reflect these growing headwinds. Zacks Rank Key Picks Cisco currently carries a Zacks Rank #4 (Buy). You can see the complete list of today's Zacks #1 (Strong Buy) Rank stocks here . Just Released - Driverless Cars: Your Roadmap to Mega-Profits Today In this latest Special Report, Zacks' Aggressive Growth Strategist Brian Bolan explores a full-blown technological breakthrough in the making - autonomous cars. He also spotlights 8 stocks with tremendous gain potential to feed off this phenomenon. Click to see the stocks right now Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report Cisco Systems, Inc. (CSCO): Free Stock Analysis Report International Business Machines Corporation (IBM): Free Stock Analysis Report Microsoft Corporation (MSFT): Free Stock Analysis Report Salesforce.com Inc (CRM): Free Stock Analysis Report To read this article on Zacks.com click here. Zacks Investment Research The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.