MUNICH and STUTTGART, Germany, Feb. 16, 2017 /PRNewswire/ -- IBM (NYSE: IBM ) and Bosch today announced a collaboration for industrial Internet of Things (IoT), making available Bosch IoT Suite services on open standards-based IBM Bluemix and IBM Watson IoT Platform for clients to efficiently update millions of IoT devices. With an estimated 20.8 billion connected things in use by 2020 (Source: Gartner ), customers expect their devices to always have the latest features and performance improvements. Bosch is making available its " Bosch IoT Rollouts " service for advanced device management and cloud-based software updates on Bluemix and integrated with the IBM Watson IoT Platform . Clients of both companies will be able to access "Bosch IoT Rollouts" via the IBM Cloud, backed by the scale, flexibility, privacy and security that is critical for updating connected devices and driving continued innovation in industrial IoT. IoT solution development will be easier and faster " IoT is changing and transforming everything from business to life. Only those companies will succeed that are able to collaborate in ecosystems," said Dr. Rainer Kallenbach, CEO of Bosch Software Innovations. "Only new ecosystems provide the strategic basis for open platforms and interoperability. Together we will make IoT solution development easier and faster for our customers." Bosch will extend its powerful Bosch IoT Suite services on IBM Bluemix and Watson IoT Platform for custom application development and runtime purposes. IoT solution developers will also benefit from the seamless integration with IBM's Watson IoT capabilities. "Over the next few years, the Internet of Things will become the biggest source of data on the planet, with billions of connected devices streaming information about their status, their location and their health," said Harriet Green, general manager, IBM Watson IoT, Cognitive Engagement and Education. "We are excited to work with Bosch to offer clients innovative capabilities for delivering personalized services and experiences to connected devices." For example, auto manufacturers can now schedule and organize software updates to millions of vehicles in a managed fashion securely and efficiently, without requiring the vehicle to come into a workshop. A white goods manufacturer can remotely send updates to batches of thousands of washing machines and dryers, providing consumers access to the latest updates, services and offerings, including automatic reordering of detergent, for example. IBM and Bosch share the vision that IoT will succeed through open standards and open source, and as such, the two companies will continue to work actively in the Eclipse Foundation and the IIC to further adoption in key areas. Media Contacts: Robert Bosch GmbH IBM Global Dirk Haushalter Hanna Smigala phone: +49 711 811-38195 phone: +1 203 512-5497 dirk.haushalter@de.bosch.com smigala@us.ibm.com About Bosch: The Bosch Group is a leading global supplier of technology and services. It employs roughly 390,000 associates worldwide (as of December 31, 2016). According to preliminary figures, the company generated sales of 73.1 billion euros in 2016. Its operations are divided into four business sectors: Mobility Solutions, Industrial Technology, Consumer Goods, and Energy and Building Technology. As a leading IoT company, Bosch offers innovative solutions for smart homes, smart cities, connected mobility, and connected industry. It uses its expertise in sensor technology, software, and services, as well as its own IoT cloud, to offer its customers connected, cross-domain solutions from a single source. The Bosch Group's strategic objective is to create solutions for a connected life, and to improve quality of life worldwide with products and services that are innovative and spark enthusiasm. In short, Bosch creates technology that is "Invented for life." The Bosch Group comprises Robert Bosch GmbH and its roughly 450 subsidiaries and regional companies in some 60 countries. Including sales and service partners, Bosch's global manufacturing, engineering, and sales network covers nearly every country in the world. The basis for the company's future growth is its innovative strength. At 120 locations across the globe, Bosch employs 59,000 associates in research and development. The company was set up in Stuttgart in 1886 by Robert Bosch (1861-1942) as "Workshop for Precision Mechanics and Electrical Engineering." The special ownership structure of Robert Bosch GmbH guarantees the entrepreneurial freedom of the Bosch Group, making it possible for the company to plan over the long term and to undertake significant up-front investments in the safeguarding of its future. Ninety-two percent of the share capital of Robert Bosch GmbH is held by Robert Bosch Stiftung GmbH, a charitable foundation. The majority of voting rights are held by Robert Bosch Industrietreuhand KG, an industrial trust. The entrepreneurial ownership functions are carried out by the trust. The remaining shares are held by the Bosch family and by Robert Bosch GmbH. Additional information is available online at www.bosch.com , www.iot.bosch.com , www.bosch-press.com , www.twitter.com/BoschPresse . About IBM Watson IoT: Across the globe, IBM is working with more than 6,000 clients across industries to help them truly realize the benefits of the IoT. Many of these IoT innovations are on display at IBM's Watson IoT headquarters in Munich, Germany, where today, IBM and customers, partners and influencers are gathering for the first ever Genius of Things Summit. At the summit, attendees will hear from Watson IoT clients who are implementing innovative IoT solutions to drive exceptional outcomes. For more information, please visit www.ibm.com/iot . On Twitter, use #WatsonIoT and #IBMGoT and follow @IBMIoT About IBM Bluemix: Bluemix, IBM's cloud platform, has grown rapidly to become one of the largest open, public cloud deployments in the world. Based in open standards, it features over 150 tools and services spanning categories of cognitive computing, blockchain, DevOps, security, the Internet of Things and more. To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/bosch-and-ibm-start-collaboration-for-industrial-iot-300408708.html span.p_span{font-size:8pt !important;font-family:"Arial" !important;color:black !important;} a.p_a{color:blue !important;} li.p_li{font-size:8pt !important;font-family:"Arial" !important;color:black !important;} p.p_p{font-size:0.62em !important;font-family:"Arial" !important;color:black !important;margin:0in !important;} .prngen2{BORDER-TOP:1pt !important; BORDER-RIGHT:1pt !important; VERTICAL-ALIGN: BOTTOM !important; BORDER-BOTTOM:1pt !important; PADDING-LEFT:0.50em !important; BORDER-LEFT:1pt !important; PADDING-RIGHT:0.50em !important;} .prntblns{BORDER-TOP: 1pt !important; BORDER-RIGHT: 1pt !important; BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse !important; BORDER-BOTTOM: 1pt !important; BORDER-LEFT: 1pt !important;} ;} p.c3 {text-decoration: underline !important;} p.c2 {font-weight: bold !important;} div.c1 {TEXT-ALIGN: left !important; WIDTH: 100% !important;} ;} Cmdr: It’s time to get Russia out of Americas White House!
Trump and ALL of his bunch have to go! 484