MUNICH, Feb. 16, 2017 /PRNewswire/ -- IBM (NYSE: IBM ) and Ricoh have announced a major shakeup in the corporate meeting room with Ricoh's new cognitive-enabled interactive whiteboard which uses IBM's Watson intelligence and voice technologies to actively support people in meetings by responding to commands, taking notes and actions and even translating into other languages. The Intelligent Workplace Solution leverages IBM Watson IoT and Ricoh's easy-to-use interactive whiteboards to change the way teams meet and collaborate through new intuitive features that can be accessed using natural voice. It makes sure that Watson doesn't just listen, but is an active meeting participant, using real-time analytics to help guide discussions so teams can make faster, better and more informed decisions. Most companies find that the majority of information shared and discussed during meetings may be lost or forgotten. Ricoh is incorporating this new powerful, innovative solution into its broader set of service offerings to help customers continually improve meeting collaboration and productivity. Likewise, IBM sees a range of more complex smart meeting support functions in the future, thanks to Watson's learning capabilities. "Our goal is to provide employees and businesses with effective and smart tools that automate administrative office processes and empower people to focus on tasks and ideas that drive business value," said Hidetsugu Nonaka, Corporate Senior Vice President, Ricoh Company, Ltd. "Together with IBM, we've created the Intelligent Workplace Solution to revolutionize meetings. Instead of being a screen, the cognitive-enabled, interactive whiteboard powered by Watson will be an active participant capturing meeting notes and action items, and building bridges between employees at different locations. The new solution is poised to be a cornerstone of meetings today and in the future." Features of the new cognitive-enabled whiteboard solution include: "Collaborative workforces are at the heart of successful business. The challenge is bringing disparate teams together and then enabling them to be productive," said Harriet Green, General Manager, Watson IoT. "With IBM's Watson IoT technologies, Ricoh's interactive whiteboards don't just guide meetings; they foster an open exchange of ideas and make it easy for teams to work in partnership and bringing meetings to life." IBM is installing more than 80 Ricoh interactive whiteboards in its new global Watson IoT headquarters in Munich, Germany. This will enable IBM's product development teams in Munich to hold productive meetings with colleagues in other locations like Japan, Brazil and the U.S. For details on the Intelligent Workplace Solution powered by IBM and Ricoh's full line of products, services and solutions, please visit www.ricoh-europe.com . Also, follow Ricoh on Twitter , Facebook and LinkedIn . Search #RicohMakesInfoWork for additional content related to Ricoh's offerings. Across the globe, IBM is working with more than 6,000 clients, across industries, to help them truly realize the benefits of IoT. Many of these innovations are on display at IBM's Watson IoT headquarters in Munich where today IBM, customers, partners and influencers are gathering for the first ever Genius of Things Summit . At Genius of Things attendees will examine how Watson IoT clients are implementing IoT solutions to drive exceptional outcomes. For more information on IBM Watson IoT, please visit www.ibm.com/iot or follow @IBMGoT and @IBMIoT on Twitter. About Ricoh Ricoh is a global technology company that has been transforming the way people work for more than 80 years. Under its corporate tagline – imagine. change. – Ricoh continues to empower companies and individuals with services and technologies that inspire innovation, enhance sustainability and boost business growth. These include document management systems, IT services, production print solutions, visual communications systems, digital cameras, and industrial systems. Headquartered in Tokyo, Ricoh Group operates in approximately 200 countries and regions. In the financial year ending March 2016, Ricoh Group had worldwide sales of 2,209 billion yen (approx. 19.6 billion USD). For more information on Ricoh, please visit www.ricoh.com Contact(s) information Jonathan Jessop Batty IBM Media Relations, IBM Watson IoT +44 7880 086571 jonathanb@uk.ibm.com Media contact information for Ricoh: John Greco Ricoh USA, Inc. 973-882-2023 john.greco@ricoh-usa.com To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/ibm-and-ricoh-transform-corporate-meetings-with-industry-first-watson-powered-interactive-whiteboards-300408718.html span.p_span{font-size:8pt !important;font-family:"Arial" !important;color:black !important;} a.p_a{color:blue !important;} li.p_li{font-size:8pt !important;font-family:"Arial" !important;color:black !important;} p.p_p{font-size:0.62em !important;font-family:"Arial" !important;color:black !important;margin:0in !important;} ;} p.c1 {font-weight: bold !important;} ;} Cmdr: It’s time to get Russia out of Americas White House!
Trump and ALL of his bunch have to go! 484