Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! Microchip Technology Incorporated ( MCHP ) will begin trading ex-dividend on February 16, 2017. A cash dividend payment of $0.361 per share is scheduled to be paid on March 07, 2017. Shareholders who purchased MCHP prior to the ex-dividend date are eligible for the cash dividend payment. This represents an 0.14% increase over prior dividend payment. The previous trading day's last sale of MCHP was $70.78, representing a -7.48% decrease from the 52 week high of $76.50 and a 73.44% increase over the 52 week low of $40.81. MCHP is a part of the Technology sector, which includes companies such as Intel Corporation ( INTC ) and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd. ( TSM ). MCHP's current earnings per share, an indicator of a company's profitability, is $.38. Zacks Investment Research reports MCHP's forecasted earnings growth in 2017 as 45.61%, compared to an industry average of 26.7%. For more information on the declaration, record and payment dates, visit the MCHP Dividend History page. Our Dividend Calendar has the full list of stocks that have an ex-dividend today. Interested in gaining exposure to MCHP through an Exchange Traded Fund [ETF]? The following ETF(s) have MCHP as a top-10 holding: WBI Tactical LCY Shares ( WBIG ) VanEck Vectors Semiconductor ETF ( SMH ) WBI Tactical LCS Shares ( WBIL ) PowerShares Dynamic Semiconductors ( PSI ) PowerShares High Yield Equity Dividend Achievers Portfolio ( PEY ). The top-performing ETF of this group is PSI with an increase of 21.65% over the last 100 days. WBIG has the highest percent weighting of MCHP at 4.03%. The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.