In the previous part of the series, we saw that Applied Materials ( AMAT ) is currently at the peak of its cycle where it is reporting strong growth from almost all segments. In fiscal 4Q16, the company’s orders and revenue reached a record high since 2000 of $3 billion and $3.3 billion, respectively. The revenue in display and services reached an all-time high while revenue in the silicon systems segment was driven by the inflection points in foundry and logic and growth in memory. The company expects this growth momentum to continue in fiscal 1Q17. For fiscal 1Q17, AMAT expects to maintain its revenue at a record high level of $3.27 billion, in line with analyst estimates. However, on a YoY (year-over-year) basis, this estimate represents revenue growth of 45%. AMAT is likely to beat these estimates as rivals Lam Research ( LRCX ) and KLA-Tencor ( KLAC ) reported 15% and 16.7% sequential growth in revenue for the same quarter. AMAT’s key customers Intel ( INTC ), TSMC ( TSM ), and Micron ( MU ) have committed to capital spending of $12 billion, $10 billion, and $5 billion, respectively, for 2017, which indicates strong growth opportunities lie ahead for AMAT in fiscal 2017. At the fiscal 4Q16 earnings call, chief financial officer Bob Halliday stated that the company’s new orders have now become more seasonal than cyclical. Thus, the company will likely stop reporting quarterly orders in fiscal 2017. In fiscal 2016, AMAT reported strong demand for its CMP (Chemical Mechanical Planarization) and metal CVD (chemical vapor deposition) products. The company is likely to witness strong demand in fiscal 2017 as Epitaxy, implants, and rapid thermal processing are adopted in 3D NAND. AMAT is expected to witness strong growth in the display segment as well. For fiscal 1Q17, AMAT expects its non-GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) EPS (earnings per share) to remain flat at $0.66, in line with analyst estimates. On a YoY basis, this estimate represents growth of 154%. In the past six quarters, the company has surpassed EPS estimate by an average of 2%. If this trend continues, the company could report EPS of $0.67 in fiscal 1Q17. Next, we’ll look at the company’s profit margins. Quote data by Xignite