Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! Microprocessor giant Intel (NASDAQ: INTC) announced a new memory technology dubbed 3D XPoint back in 2015. The technology is a type of non-volatile memory that the company says can be used as either extremely fast storage technology or as a substitute for traditional DRAM-based memory modules in some enterprise server applications. In late 2015, Intel told investors that with its 3D XPoint memory modules, it had the opportunity to go after the data center memory market, which the company projected would be worth about $34 billion by 2020. A wafer of Intel's 3D XPoint memory technology. Image source: Intel. makeArticleAd(); Clearly, Intel can't address the entirety of the server DRAM market with 3D XPoint memory modules -- the technology just isn't suitable for all applications. Fortunately, Intel's data center group (DCG) chief, Diane Bryant, went into some additional detail around the true size of the opportunity for Intel's 3D XPoint memory modules and the assumptions that Intel used to quantify that opportunity. An $8 billion opportunity by 2021 Intel says that by 2021, the opportunity for its 3D XPoint memory modules in the data center could reach $8 billion. That's clearly much smaller than the $34 billion-by-2020 figure that Intel had previously put out there, but in the context of the roughly $17 billion in revenue that Intel's DCG segment generated in 2016, it's a significant opportunity. "With 3D XPoint, it is a very compelling value proposition to the end user because we can deliver twice the memory footprint capacity in a system at a 40% lower cost structure [compared to DRAM]," Bryant said. He characterized Intel's expectations in this market through 2021 as "pretty conservative," noting that the company assumes "single-digit server attach rate of 3D XPoint memory out through [Intel's forecast] horizon." In other words, of all the servers sold in the market over that time, Intel expects just a "single-digit" percentage of them (so anywhere from 1% to 9%) to include 3D XPoint memory modules. She further clarified that Intel isn't going after the entirety of the server market with these products, but is instead targeting the narrower market of servers that "are deploying 512 gigabytes -- half a terabyte -- of memory or above." When will the revenue begin flowing in? Intel had originally planned to start shipping 3D XPoint memory modules alongside its upcoming Skylake Server processors, which are expected to launch in the middle of 2017. However, the company admitted that the volume sales ramp of these products has been pushed out to next year. What this means for investors, then, is that we shouldn't see significant, if any, 3D XPoint memory module sales in the company's DCG revenue this year. In fact, Intel explicitly said that one of the reasons that it took down its DCG revenue growth target through 2021 was the pushout of some new products, including 3D XPoint. The good news is that if this technology is as compelling as Intel claims that it is and the company's got customers lined up and ready to buy it, then the ramp-up of 3D XPoint (as well as other technologies) should lead to an acceleration in DCG growth beyond the "high-single-digit" percentage that the company expects to see in 2017 in 2018 and beyond. 10 stocks we like better than Intel When investing geniuses David and Tom Gardner have a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor , has tripled the market.* David and Tom just revealed what they believe are the 10 best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Intel wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys. Click here to learn about these picks! *Stock Advisor returns as of February 6, 2017 Ashraf Eassa owns shares of Intel. The Motley Fool recommends Intel. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy . The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.