MEMPHIS, Tenn., Feb. 16, 2017 /PRNewswire/ -- International Paper ( IP ) announced that it has been named again by FORTUNE magazine as one of "America's Most Admired Companies." International Paper has earned this recognition fourteen times in the last fifteen years based on scores achieved in the following categories: ability to attract and retain talented people; quality of management; social responsibility to the community and the environment; innovativeness; quality of products or services; wise use of corporate assets; financial soundness; long-term investment value; and effectiveness in doing business globally. "Our vision to be among the most successful, sustainable and responsible companies in the world," said Mark Sutton, chairman and chief executive officer. "Our 55,000 employees are committed to doing the right things, in the right ways, for the right reasons, all of the time—this is The IP Way. Congratulations to our global team for achieving this well-deserved recognition." About International Paper International Paper ( IP ) is a leading global producer of renewable fiber-based packaging, pulp and paper products with manufacturing operations in North America, Latin America, Europe, North Africa, Asia and Russia. We produce packaging products that protect and promote goods, and enable world-wide commerce; pulp for diapers, tissue and other personal hygiene products that promote health and wellness; papers that facilitate education and communication; and paper bags, cups and food containers that provide convenience and portability. We are headquartered in Memphis, Tenn., and employ approximately 55,000 colleagues located in more than 24 countries. Net sales for 2016 were $21 billion. For more information about International Paper, our products and global citizenship efforts, please visit internationalpaper.com. To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/international-paper-once-again-selected-to-fortunes-list-of-americas-most-admired-companies-300408343.html span.p_span{font-size:8pt !important;font-family:"Arial" !important;color:black !important;} a.p_a{color:blue !important;} li.p_li{font-size:8pt !important;font-family:"Arial" !important;color:black !important;} p.p_p{font-size:0.62em !important;font-family:"Arial" !important;color:black !important;margin:0in !important;} ;} Cmdr: It’s time to get Russia out of Americas White House!
Trump and ALL of his bunch have to go! 484