MEMPHIS, Tenn., Feb. 15, 2017 /PRNewswire/ -- International Paper ( IP ) incoming CFO Glenn Landau, will speak at the Barclays Industrial Select Conference on February 23, 2017 in Miami Beach, Florida. The presentation is scheduled to begin at 8:35 am ET, and will be followed by a question and answer session. Mr. Landau will become the company's chief financial officer effective with the filing of the company's 2016 Form 10-K in the first quarter of 2017. All interested parties are invited to view the presentation and/or listen to the webcast live via International Paper's internet site http://www.internationalpaper.com by clicking on the "Performance"" tab and then clicking on the "Presentations and Events" link. A replay of the webcast will be available on the website approximately three hours after the presentation. About International Paper International Paper ( IP ) is a leading global producer of renewable fiber-based packaging, pulp and paper products with manufacturing operations in North America, Latin America, Europe, North Africa, Asia and Russia. We produce packaging products that protect and promote goods, and enable world-wide commerce; pulp for diapers, tissue and other personal hygiene products that promote health and wellness; papers that facilitate education and communication; and paper bags, cups and food containers that provide convenience and portability. We are headquartered in Memphis, Tenn., and employ approximately 55,000 colleagues located in more than 24 countries. Net sales for 2016 were $21 billion. For more information about International Paper, our products and global citizenship efforts, please visit internationalpaper.com. To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/international-paper-incoming-cfo-to-speak-at-barclays-industrial-select-conference-on-february-23-300408035.html span.p_span{font-size:8pt !important;font-family:"Arial" !important;color:black !important;} a.p_a{color:blue !important;} li.p_li{font-size:8pt !important;font-family:"Arial" !important;color:black !important;} p.p_p{font-size:0.62em !important;font-family:"Arial" !important;color:black !important;margin:0in !important;} ;} Cmdr: It’s time to get Russia out of Americas White House!
Trump and ALL of his bunch have to go! 484