Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! Looking at the universe of stocks we cover at Dividend Channel , on 2/13/17, AGCO Corp. (Symbol: AGCO), SunCoke Energy Partners LP (Symbol: SXCP), and International Paper Co (Symbol: IP) will all trade ex-dividend for their respective upcoming dividends. AGCO Corp. will pay its quarterly dividend of $0.14 on 3/15/17, SunCoke Energy Partners LP will pay its quarterly dividend of $0.594 on 3/1/17, and International Paper Co will pay its quarterly dividend of $0.4625 on 3/15/17. As a percentage of AGCO's recent stock price of $63.93, this dividend works out to approximately 0.22%, so look for shares of AGCO Corp. to trade 0.22% lower - all else being equal - when AGCO shares open for trading on 2/13/17. Similarly, investors should look for SXCP to open 3.38% lower in price and for IP to open 0.88% lower, all else being equal. Below are dividend history charts for AGCO, SXCP, and IP, showing historical dividends prior to the most recent ones declared. AGCO Corp. (Symbol: AGCO) : makeArticleAd(); SunCoke Energy Partners LP (Symbol: SXCP) : International Paper Co (Symbol: IP) : In general, dividends are not always predictable, following the ups and downs of company profits over time. Therefore, a good first due diligence step in forming an expectation of annual yield going forward, is looking at the history above, for a sense of stability over time. This can help in judging whether the most recent dividends from these companies are likely to continue. If they do continue, the current estimated yields on annualized basis would be 0.88% for AGCO Corp., 13.54% for SunCoke Energy Partners LP, and 3.54% for International Paper Co. In Thursday trading, AGCO Corp. shares are currently off about 0.2%, SunCoke Energy Partners LP shares are down about 0.3%, and International Paper Co shares are off about 1.5% on the day. Click here to learn which 25 S.A.F.E. dividend stocks should be on your radar screen » The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.