Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! Pfizer, Inc. PFE announced top-line results from a head-to-head study comparing its rheumatoid arthritis (RA) drug Xeljanz with AbbVie, Inc.'s ABBV Humira. Xeljanz (5 mg twice daily), a JAK inhibitor, is presently approved as a second-line treatment for the treatment of moderate-to-severely active RA in patients who have had an inadequate response to or cannot tolerate methotrexate. In Feb 2016, the FDA approved a once-daily extended-release (XR) formulation of Xeljanz (11 mg) tablets. The phase IIIb/IV ORAL Strategy study (n=1,152) compared Xeljanz (5 mg twice daily) as a monotherapy or in combination with methotrexate (MTX) versus Humira plus MTX. The study demonstrated non-inferiority of Xeljanz plus MTX versus Humira plus MTX, thereby meeting the primary endpoint. However, Xeljanz monotherapy did not demonstrate non-inferiority versus Humira plus MTX, thereby failing to meet the primary endpoint. Pfizer's shares are up 3.5% so far this year, in line with the Zacks classified Large-Cap Pharma industry. Overall safety results from these studies were found to be consistent with those observed in the broader rheumatology development program for Xeljanz. Xeljanz sales in 2016 were $927 million, up 77% from the prior-year quarter. Xeljanz (5 mg, twice daily) is under regulatory review in the EU. Xeljanz is being studied for the treatment of active psoriatic arthritis (PsA) and ulcerative colitis. Label and geographical expansion will boost the drug's commercial potential significantly. Blockbuster drugs currently approved to treat RA include Johnson Johnson's JNJ Remicade and Amgen, Inc.'s AMGN Enbrel that Pfizer markets outside the U.S. and Canada. Pfizer carries a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). You can see the complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here . Just Released - Driverless Cars: Your Roadmap to Mega-Profits Today In this latest Special Report, Zacks' Aggressive Growth Strategist Brian Bolan explores a full-blown technological breakthrough in the making - autonomous cars. He also spotlights 8 stocks with tremendous gain potential to feed off this phenomenon. Click to see the stocks right now Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report makeArticleAd(); Pfizer, Inc. (PFE): Free Stock Analysis Report Johnson Johnson (JNJ): Free Stock Analysis Report Amgen Inc. (AMGN): Free Stock Analysis Report AbbVie Inc. (ABBV): Free Stock Analysis Report To read this article on Zacks.com click here. Zacks Investment Research The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.