As an asset class , dividend stocks typically outperform their non-dividend counterparts. And with dividend reinvestment plans , or DRIPs, the opportunity for compound returns only adds to their appeal. (See also: Introduction to Dividends: Investing in Dividend Stocks .) True, dividend stocks are subject to price pressure when interest rates rise, but when prices are depressed, there is an opportunity to chase extra yield – a definite plus for long-term investors. (See also: Yellen Sees More Rate Hikes With Economic Growth . ) A high-quality dividend stock never goes out of favor with sage investors building a balanced portfolio . And in times of market turbulence, dividend-paying stocks are a hedge against volatility . This year could be a banner year for dividend stocks, with several industries poised to gain handsomely under the policy preferences of a new presidential administration. If you can choose stocks that gain on a price basis and generate a healthy dividend yield , you'll be sitting pretty when your year-end statements roll in. (See also: 6 Rules for Successful Dividend Investing .) These stocks were selected based on strong dividends compared to their sector peers and the prospect for positive tailwinds. All figures are as of February 14, 2017. Johnson Johnson is the largest health care company in the world, boasting a market cap of $316.5 billion. It is a leader in the pharmaceutical space, especially in the costly oncology and specialty drugs that are driving growth in the sector . (See also: Top Stocks to Watch in 2017 .) The company also stands to gain from the tax proposals favored by the Trump administration, particularly those aimed at repatriating overseas profits. If Johnson Johnson is able to access its overseas cash and cash flows for domestic use, the money could be used to create tremendous value for shareholders . Johnson Johnson is no slouch in the dividend department either, with a strong track record and current dividend yield approaching 3%. As of Feb. 14, shares of Johnson Johnson were trading at $116.36, up 13.25% over a 52-week period. (See also: J J Buying Actelion for $30 Billion Cash .) One could argue that the oil recession makes Chevron an odd choice for a dividend stock, but with dividend yields above 3.8%, it's a solid selection. Chevron is a diversified energy company that only stands to gain in a policy environment that favors fossil fuels, and its downstream businesses are a natural hedge against any temporary weakness in the oil and gas market. Chevron has a market cap of $212 billion. The company's shares were trading at $112.52 as of Feb. 14, an increase of 33% over the previous year, with dividends of $4.32 per share. (See also: Oil Investors Await 2017 Investment Plans . ) Utility stocks tend to outperform in periods of economic downturn thanks to reliable cash flows. It's these same steady cash flows that fund dividend payouts, making these stocks trusted favorites for income investors. AT T is a top performer in this metric, with dividend yields consistently hitting 5% and 6% or more. It is currently yielding a healthy 4.8% – a nice bonus given its solid price performance over the past year (up 11% to $40.75 as of Feb. 14). This will be an interesting year for the telecom giant. The company's proposed merger with Time Warner Inc. ( TWX ), if approved, would make AT T a communications powerhouse and position it as the dominant player – a definite boon for investors. Company executives believe that the new administration is favorable toward the deal, so now may be a great time to buy. (See also: AT T Winding Up for Major Breakout .) Bank stocks stand to do quite well under the Trump administration. Dodd-Frank and its onerous stress tests are on the chopping block, which should drive growth in the financial sector . Wells Fargo is already a top performer in the dividend department – its current dividend yield is approaching 3%. And the fact that the company suffered a blow to its reputation over phony accounts is actually a boon to investors, as it is still a blue-chip stock with a solid business. (See also: Wells Fargo Mea Culpa Could Send Stock Flying .) Like most bank stocks, Wells Fargo has done well over the past year. During that time frame, its stock price are up 18.33% to $57 as of Feb. 14. Perhaps even better for dividend investors, Wells Fargo has a payout ratio of nearly 38%, placing it near the top for major bank stocks, which average just 29%. By comparison, Bank of America Corporation ( BAC ) pays a paltry 16.3%. (See also: Wells Fargo Stock: A Dividend Analysis .) Want to learn how to invest? Delivered twice a week, straight to your inbox.