Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice Trading Tips Stocks are drifting meekly on Thursday after Wednesday's push to all-time highs and strong economic data. Stocks dropped near the open, and bonds rallied, after CNBC confirmed that the melt up of the past week had been driven largely by sizable short call option covering by the Catalyst Fund after its bet against the Trump rally went sideways. That also explains the relatively odd surge of volatility in yesterday's session. News flow is light today, with a focus on renewed chatter of a border adjustment tax and hawkish Federal Reserve speak. Nothing major. But the action is good enough to push up stocks in lagging areas like utilities, healthcare and consumer staples. Case in point is Johnson Johnson (NYSE: JNJ ), which is rising up and over its four-month trading range to return to levels not seen since November. This effectively ends a downtrend that's been in place since July. That's great news for the March $115 JNJ calls recommended to Edge Pro subscribers, as they have zoomed up to a gain of roughly 73% since recommended on Tuesday. The company will next report results on April 25 before the bell. Analysts are looking for earnings of $1.76 per share on earnings of $17.98 billion. Anthony Mirhaydari is founder of the Edge and Edge Pro investment advisory newsletters. A two-week and four-week free trial offer has been extended to InvestorPlace readers. The post Johnson Johnson (JNJ) Stock Breaks Higher appeared first on InvestorPlace . The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.