TORONTO--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Demonstrating continued support of Canadian small businesses, Chase Paymentech announced today it is extending its partnership with the Canadian Federation of Independent Business (CFIB) through April 2022. “Chase Paymentech has been a terrific partner for Canadian small and medium-sized businesses and the CFIB is happy to renew our partnership with Chase, as they serve our members well and offer the lowest payments processing costs available to smaller firms,” said Dan Kelly, CEO of the 109,000-member organization. The extension means CFIB members continue to receive preferred pricing for merchant services from Chase Paymentech, part of JPMorgan Chase Co., named the #1 wholly-owned merchant acquirer in the world by The Nilson Report as of April 2016. “Helping small businesses around the world is a priority for us, and we look for partners like the CFIB who share that focus,” said Sam Jawad, president of Chase Paymentech Canada. “The scope of the CFIB allows us to deliver safe and secure payment processing with extra value.” Chase Merchant Services is the global payment acceptance and merchant acquiring business of JPMorgan Chase Co. and processes all major credit and debit card payments as well as mobile payments for clients, while making it a seamless transaction for their customers. In 2016, the firm topped more than $1 trillion in global payments processing. The company employs nearly 400 people in Canada. About JPMorgan Chase Co. JPMorgan Chase Co. ( JPM ) is a leading global financial services firm with assets of $2.5 trillion and operations worldwide. The Firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers and small businesses, commercial banking, financial transaction processing, and asset management. A component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, JPMorgan Chase Co. serves millions of consumers in the United States and many of the world's most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients under its J.P. Morgan and Chase brands. Information about JPMorgan Chase Co. is available at www.jpmorganchase.com . View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20170216005341/en/ .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} ;} Cmdr: It’s time to get Russia out of Americas White House!
Trump and ALL of his bunch have to go! 486