Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! Earlier this week, a cash deal was announced under which New York-based asset manager, Fortress Investment Group LLC FIG will be taken over by Japan-based SoftBank Group Corp. for about $3.3 billion. Following the news, shares of Fortress climbed significantly by 28.66% to close at $7.99. makeArticleAd(); "Fortress's excellent track record speaks for itself, and we look forward to benefitting from its leadership, broad-based expertise and world-class investment platform," said Masayoshi Son, Chairman and CEO of SoftBank Group Corp. "For SoftBank, this opportunity will immediately help expand our group capabilities, and, alongside our soon-to-be-established SoftBank Vision Fund platform, will accelerate our SoftBank 2.0 transformation strategy of bold, disciplined investment and world class execution to drive sustainable long-term growth." The transaction awaits Fortress shareholders' approval, certain regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. Further, the deal is anticipated to close in second-half 2017. Terms of the Agreement Per the terms of the agreement, each Fortress Class A shareholder will get $8.08 per share, at a premium of 38.6% to the closing price of Fortress Class A common stock on Feb 13, 2017, and a premium of 51.2% to Fortress's three-month volume-weighted average price, excluding dividends. In addition, each Fortress Class A shareholder will be paid two regular quarterly dividends prior to the closing of the deal, not exceeding 9 cents per share. Per the deal, Fortress principals will be continuing to lead Fortress, operating within SoftBank as an independent New York-based business. Senior fund managers would also be part of the group. Moreover, Fortress principals will be investing 50% of their after-tax proceeds from the agreement in Fortress-managed funds and vehicles, and will be voting shares of a total 34.99% of the outstanding Fortress voting shares, which are held by them in favor of the deal. Notably, SoftBank is permitted to involve in partners for partly investment. J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, a unit of JPMorgan Chase Co. JPM acted as a financial advisor to SoftBank; while Morgan Stanley Co. LLC, a unit of Morgan Stanley MS acted as the financial advisor to Fortress. Conclusion Fortress has a diversified portfolio with a range of hedge fund strategies, from bitcoin to timber. However, the asset manager failed to be competitive with its bigger peers, including The Blackstone Group L.P. BX in the terms of assets under management growth. Also, the volatile performance amid a financial crisis was also an undermining factor for the decline. Fortress' shares have declined around 4.5% in 2016, as against 3.3% gain in the Zacks categorized Investment Management industry. At present, Fortress carries a Zacks Rank #5 (Strong Sell). You can see the complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here . Just Released - Driverless Cars: Your Roadmap to Mega-Profits Today In this latest Special Report, Zacks' Aggressive Growth Strategist Brian Bolan explores a full-blown technological breakthrough in the making - autonomous cars. He also spotlights 8 stocks with tremendous gain potential to feed off this phenomenon. Click to see the stocks right now Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report J P Morgan Chase Co (JPM): Free Stock Analysis Report Morgan Stanley (MS): Free Stock Analysis Report The Blackstone Group L.P. (BX): Free Stock Analysis Report Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG): Free Stock Analysis Report To read this article on Zacks.com click here. Zacks Investment Research The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.