WASHINGTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Today, the JPMorgan Chase Institute released its Local Consumer Commerce Index (LCCI) for October 2016, which showed that five of the 15 U.S. cities analyzed saw positive growth in year-over-year spending. However, overall, year-over-year consumer spending growth declined by 0.3 percent in October – making it the fourth consecutive month of negative growth. Denver continued to experience the fastest growth of all cities studied, this time at 7.9 percent year-over-year. Across all 15 cities, growth contributions from large businesses rebounded significantly from September 2016, adding 1.2 percentage points to overall growth. However, this rebound was offset by declines in growth contributions from small and medium businesses. This report provides a timely view of how the following cities and surrounding metro areas are faring economically, both individually and in aggregate: Atlanta, Chicago, Columbus, Dallas, Denver, Detroit, Houston, Miami, Los Angeles, New York, Phoenix, Portland (OR), San Diego, San Francisco, and Seattle. By looking at actual anonymized financial transactions, LCCI offers an ongoing, dynamic view of the health and vibrancy of the U.S. consumer and the places where businesses operate. “Despite a slight contraction, October 2016 brought some positive developments in local consumer commerce,” said Diana Farrell, President and CEO of the JPMorgan Chase Institute . “Large businesses helped drive this change, as did ongoing spending growth from millennials and low income consumers. We are hopeful that November and December brought continued increases thanks to local holiday spending.” The key highlights from the latest Index include: The LCCI offers unique advantages over existing measures of consumer spending. Each release of the LCCI will describe the economic picture of local communities and provide a powerful tool for city development officials, businesses, investors, and statistical agencies to better understand the everyday economic health of consumers, businesses, and the places they care about. About the JPMorgan Chase Institute The JPMorgan Chase Institute is a global think tank dedicated to delivering data-rich analyses and expert insights for the public good. Its aim is to help decision makers – policymakers, businesses, and nonprofit leaders – appreciate the scale, granularity, diversity, and interconnectedness of the global economic system and use better facts, timely data, and thoughtful analysis to make smarter decisions to advance global prosperity. Drawing on JPMorgan Chase Co.’s unique proprietary data, expertise, and market access, the Institute develops analyses and insights on the inner workings of the global economy, frames critical problems, and convenes stakeholders and leading thinkers. For more information visit: jpmorganchaseinstitute.com . View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20170215005755/en/ .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;} Cmdr: It’s time to get Russia out of Americas White House!
Trump and ALL of his bunch have to go! 486