BREAKING:  Dow, S P 500 Stay Down; Nasdaq Inches Into Positive Ground Need to register? Current subscribers register here . Sales of SodaStream's sparkling water maker starter kits rose 22% in Q4. (FRANCES M. ROBERTS/Newscom) SodaStream's ( SODA ) profit tripled in the fourth quarter as the carbonated-beverage device maker easily bested expectations on Wall Street. Diluted earnings rocketed to 71 cents a share from a prior-year profit of 24 cents on 17% revenue growth to $131.8 million, well above analyst views for EPS of 30 cents and revenue of $124.8 million. Shares of SodaStream ended the regular trading session up more than 4.6% to 49.54 on the stock market today . The stock broke out in November and has since climbed into profit-taking sell territory. Beverage giant Coca-Cola ( KO ) was down less than 0.1%. PepsiCo ( PEP ), which also reported quarterly results Wednesday, dipped 0.7%. Soda consumption in the U.S. hit a 30-year low in 2016 , amid growing consumer concerns about health and nutrition. SodaStream, for its part, has been repositioning the brand around sparkling water instead of soda. Sales of sparkling water maker starter kits rose 22% in Q4, while sales of CO2 refills rose 10%. Flavor sales, however, fell 6% during the quarter. "Consumers are responding positively to our messaging around health and wellness, convenience, and the environment, and are using SodaStream to produce sparkling water in record numbers," said SodaStream CEO Daniel Birnbaum in a release. Revenue gains were mainly driven by demand for sparkling water makers and consumables in the U.S., Canada, Germany, the Nordics, Switzerland and Japan, said the company. By segment, revenue in the Americas led the way with 20% growth, followed by 18% gains in Western Europe — its largest segment — and 9% growth in Asia-Pacific. Growth was flat in SodaStream's Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa segment. Birnbaum also highlighted expense optimization and the consolidation of the company's manufacturing, logistics and distribution activities in Israel. "This has resulted in an all-time record operating and net income year, strong free cash flow and $57 million in cash and deposits with zero financial debt," he said. Seven-session winning streaks for the Nasdaq and S 500 were in jeopardy Thursday, but selling pressure was muted. Small caps lagged. (AP) 2/16/2017 Major indexes traded quietly lower Thursday afternoon as seven-session win streaks for the Nasdaq composite and S 500 looked to... 2/16/2017 Major indexes traded quietly lower Thursday afternoon as seven-session win... The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association recommends that bond markets shutter on Monday as well. (AP) FANG CEOs Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, Reed Hastings and Larry Page. (AP) Find the broker that's right for you with IBD's annual list of the Best Online Brokers. Get 4 free weeks of the IBD Digital edition plus access to IBD s exclusive market analysis, proprietary stock ratings and interactive tools. Stay on top of the market with IBD s exclusive videos. You will find the latest news, market analysis, and education to help you become a more successful investor. Get the most out of IBD s products and features by learning the CAN SLIM Investing System and staying in sync with the market trend. Notice: Information contained herein is not and should not be construed as an offer, solicitation, or recommendation to buy or sell securities. The information has been obtained from sources we believe to be reliable; however no guarantee is made or implied with respect to its accuracy, timeliness, or completeness. Authors may own the stocks they discuss. The information and content are subject to change without notice. *Real-time prices by Bats®. Volume delayed. Real-time quote and/or trade prices are not sourced from all markets. © 2000-2017 Investor's Business Daily, Inc. All rights reserved