ATLANTA--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- The Board of Directors of The Coca-Cola Company today approved the company's 55 th consecutive annual dividend increase, raising the quarterly dividend 6 percent from 35 cents to 37 cents per common share. This is equivalent to an annual dividend of $1.48 per share, up from $1.40 per share in 2016. The first quarterly dividend is payable April 3, 2017, to shareowners of record as of March 15, 2017. The increase reflects the Board's confidence in the company's long-term cash flow. The Coca-Cola Company returned $6 billion in dividends to shareowners in 2016, bringing to $35 billion the total amount given back to shareowners through dividends since Jan. 1, 2010. About The Coca-Cola Company The Coca-Cola Company ( KO ) is the world's largest beverage company, refreshing consumers with more than 500 sparkling and still brands and more than 3,800 beverage choices. Led by Coca-Cola, one of the world's most valuable and recognizable brands, our company’s portfolio features 20 billion-dollar brands, 18 of which are available in reduced-, low- or no-calorie options. Our billion-dollar brands include Diet Coke, Coca-Cola Zero, Fanta, Sprite, Dasani, vitaminwater, Powerade, Minute Maid, Simply, Del Valle, Georgia and Gold Peak. Through the world's largest beverage distribution system, we are the No. 1 provider of both sparkling and still beverages. More than 1.9 billion servings of our beverages are enjoyed by consumers in more than 200 countries each day. With an enduring commitment to building sustainable communities, our company is focused on initiatives that reduce our environmental footprint, create a safe, inclusive work environment for our associates, and enhance the economic development of the communities where we operate. Together with our bottling partners, we rank among the world's top 10 private employers with more than 700,000 system associates. For more information, visit Coca-Cola Journey at www.coca-colacompany.com , follow us on Twitter at twitter.com/CocaColaCo , visit our blog, Coca-Cola Unbottled, at www.coca-colablog.com or find us on LinkedIn at www.linkedin.com/company/the-coca-cola- company . View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20170216005853/en/ .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwuline {text-decoration: underline !important;} ;} Cmdr: It’s time to get Russia out of Americas White House!
Trump and ALL of his bunch have to go! 477