BREAKING:  Dow, S P 500 Stay Down; Nasdaq Inches Into Positive Ground Need to register? Current subscribers register here . Restaurant Brands International has approached Popeyes Louisiana Chicken about a takeover. (Ken Wolter/Shutterstock) Burger King and Tim Horton's parent Restaurant Brands International ( QSR ) has approached Popeyes Louisiana Chicken ( PLKI ) about a takeover, according to a Reuters report out Monday. The two sides haven't agreed to a price, and it's still to early to know if there will be any agreement as Restaurant Brands is looking at other potential buyout targets, Reuters said. Popeyes shares jumped 7.2% to 70.82 just ahead of the close on the stock market today . Restaurant Brands climbed 4.6% to 53.80. Wingstop ( WING ) slipped 0.9% to 29.04, and Bojangles ( BOJA ) was unchanged at 20.55. Wendy's ( WEN ) and  McDonald's ( MCD ) were down fractionally. Earlier Monday, Restaurant Brands reported fourth-quarter earnings and revenue above Wall Street views. RELATED:  Should Yum Brands Dump Pizza Hut Amid Heat From Domino's, Papa John's? General Electric, along with Apple and Microsoft, led in Q3 buybacks and dividends. (GE) 11:22 AM ET Apple, General Electric and Microsoft led U.S. corporations in spending on dividends and stock buybacks in Q3. 11:22 AM ET Apple, General Electric and Microsoft led U.S. corporations in spending... The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association recommends that bond markets shutter on Monday as well. (AP) FANG CEOs Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, Reed Hastings and Larry Page. (AP) Find the broker that's right for you with IBD's annual list of the Best Online Brokers. Get 4 free weeks of the IBD Digital edition plus access to IBD s exclusive market analysis, proprietary stock ratings and interactive tools. Stay on top of the market with IBD s exclusive videos. You will find the latest news, market analysis, and education to help you become a more successful investor. Get the most out of IBD s products and features by learning the CAN SLIM Investing System and staying in sync with the market trend. Notice: Information contained herein is not and should not be construed as an offer, solicitation, or recommendation to buy or sell securities. The information has been obtained from sources we believe to be reliable; however no guarantee is made or implied with respect to its accuracy, timeliness, or completeness. Authors may own the stocks they discuss. The information and content are subject to change without notice. *Real-time prices by Bats®. Volume delayed. Real-time quote and/or trade prices are not sourced from all markets. © 2000-2017 Investor's Business Daily, Inc. All rights reserved