(A protest in Brooklyn, New York, on February 2 by the Yemeni community against US President Donald Trump's travel ban.Lucas Jackson/Reuters) Thousands of immigrants are expected to participate in the "Day Without Immigrants" strike on Thursday. The protest, in which participants will stay home from work and school, aims to show immigrants to be a crucial part of America's economy and society. The strike is in defiance of President Donald Trump's immigration order temporarily banning travel to the US by refugees and by most people from seven majority-Muslim countries. Though a US appeals-court ruling earlier this month prevented the ban from being enforced as its legality is decided, The Washington Post reported that Trump was considering rewriting the plan to regain some type of immigration ban. Many are also citing last week's nationwide sweep of Immigration and Customs Enforcement arrests, as well as Trump's promise to build a wall along the US-Mexico border , as reasons for the strike. Some businesses — including a few McDonald's locations — are closing for the entire day, while others say they will give a portion of the day's earnings to nonprofits that help Latino communities. They range from shops to restaurants to supermarkets to bars. Protests are planned in Washington, DC, as well as Philadelphia, Boston, Houston, Chicago, and New York City, where dozens of retailers will close. More than 250 businesses in Charlotte, North Carolina, will close too, the Spanish-language newspapers Que Pasa Mi Gente and Hola Noticias reported . Celebrity chefs José Andrés and Andy Shallal, both immigrants, have also announced they will not open their restaurants on Thursday. Here are a few other businesses across the US that are shuttering, according to Twitter . Chavez Supermarket in the South Bay among businesses that will be closed on Thursday in support of #DayWithoutImmigrants . pic.twitter.com/cK2c8O1MnR Tried to get a cup of coffee at McDonald's, closed. Went to next one, closed. I don't need coffee. #DayWithoutImmigrants 👊🏻 #CLT restaurants and other businesses close in support of #DayWithoutImmigrants https://t.co/hP80CwkjOn pic.twitter.com/FMXYs9pitc MARK YOUR CALENDARS @CityPGH @mywashpa #LasPalmas will be closed on Thursday! #daywithouthispanics #WPXI #daywithoutimmigrants pic.twitter.com/DP1sZxjnEc The efforts follow two large strikes in New York City. On January 28, members of the New York Taxi Workers Alliance went on a one-hour strike in solidarity with protesters at John F. Kennedy International Airport. Uber, however, was still servicing riders, which prompted the #DeleteUber hashtag that led to 200,000 deleted accounts, according to The New York Times. A week later, members of New York City's Yemeni-American community closed hundreds of their markets and protested in Brooklyn. In addition, the organizers of the Women's March on Washington are planning a "Day Without Women" strike , with the date still to be determined. Another group of grassroots organizers plan to hold a general strike on Friday to protest Trump's policies. NOW WATCH: A whiskey expert suggests some of his favorite bottles for under $50 More From Business Insider Dont-Tase-Me-Bro: Why is Trump more angry with the leaks than the content of the leaks?? 2.7k