Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! Looking today at week-over-week shares outstanding changes among the universe of ETFs covered at ETF Channel , one standout is the Vanguard Russell 1000 ETF (Symbol: VONE) where we have detected an approximate $56.4 million dollar outflow -- that's a 7.6% decrease week over week (from 6,900,000 to 6,375,000). Among the largest underlying components of VONE, in trading today McDonald's Corp (Symbol: MCD) is up about 0.6%, Medtronic PLC (Symbol: MDT) is up about 0.3%, and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (Symbol: BMY) is higher by about 0.9%. For a complete list of holdings, visit the VONE Holdings page » The chart below shows the one year price performance of VONE, versus its 200 day moving average: Looking at the chart above, VONE's low point in its 52 week range is $85.59 per share, with $107.54 as the 52 week high point - that compares with a last trade of $107.46. Comparing the most recent share price to the 200 day moving average can also be a useful technical analysis technique -- learn more about the 200 day moving average » . makeAd('4','300x250','mktsnews','vanguard','',''); Exchange traded funds (ETFs) trade just like stocks, but instead of ''shares'' investors are actually buying and selling ''units''. These ''units'' can be traded back and forth just like stocks, but can also be created or destroyed to accommodate investor demand. Each week we monitor the week-over-week change in shares outstanding data, to keep a lookout for those ETFs experiencing notable inflows (many new units created) or outflows (many old units destroyed). Creation of new units will mean the underlying holdings of the ETF need to be purchased, while destruction of units involves selling underlying holdings, so large flows can also impact the individual components held within ETFs. Click here to find out which 9 other ETFs experienced notable outflows » The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.