BREAKING:  Dow, S P 500 Stay Down; Nasdaq Inches Into Positive Ground Need to register? Current subscribers register here . Sales at Burger King restaurants helped parent Restaurant Brands International to better-than-expected earnings Monday. (Francis Joseph Dean/Deanpictures/Newscom) Burger King parent Restaurant Brands International ( QSR ) topped Street forecasts on both the top and bottom lines in the fourth quarter. Earnings grew 26% to 44 cents a share on 5% revenue growth to $1.111 billion, ahead of estimates for 42 cents EPS on $1.106 billion in sales, according to Thomson Reuters. Shares of Restaurant Brands, which also owns Tim Hortons, jumped 4.7% to 53.82 on the stock market today , hitting a record high. The stock is now extended from last week's breakout at 50.30 Burger King comparable-restaurant sales rose 2.8% as system-wide sales grew 8.5% in constant currency, said the company. The number of Burger King outlets rose 4.9%, or 495 more stores, for the year. Meanwhile, Tim Hortons comparable sales ticked up 0.2% as system-wide sales increased 2.4%. Tim Horton outlets grew by 4.5%, or 121 more stores, during the year. During the quarter, Burger King's U.S. comps grew 1.8%, beating consensus, and "benefited from strong new product introductions and what we view as one of the strongest value propositions in quick service," wrote Stephens analyst Will Slabaugh in a Monday note. He rates the stock at overweight with a 52 price target. Burger King attributed comparable sales growth to strength in its Asia Pacific and Latin America and Caribbean segments, while Tim Hortons highlighted "notable growth in the U.S." and said increases in breakfast, lunch and dinner sales drove comp growth for the year. "Our continued focus on guest satisfaction and value creation for all of our stakeholders has resulted in accelerated restaurant development and continued systemwide sales growth at both of our iconic brands, Tim Hortons and Burger King," said Restaurant Brands Chief Executive Daniel Schwartz in the earnings release. Rival McDonald's ( MCD ) shares fell 0.2%. Wendy's ( WEN ) shares dipped 0.1%. General Electric, along with Apple and Microsoft, led in Q3 buybacks and dividends. (GE) 11:22 AM ET Apple, General Electric and Microsoft led U.S. corporations in spending on dividends and stock buybacks in Q3. 11:22 AM ET Apple, General Electric and Microsoft led U.S. corporations in spending... The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association recommends that bond markets shutter on Monday as well. (AP) FANG CEOs Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, Reed Hastings and Larry Page. (AP) Find the broker that's right for you with IBD's annual list of the Best Online Brokers. Get 4 free weeks of the IBD Digital edition plus access to IBD s exclusive market analysis, proprietary stock ratings and interactive tools. Stay on top of the market with IBD s exclusive videos. You will find the latest news, market analysis, and education to help you become a more successful investor. Get the most out of IBD s products and features by learning the CAN SLIM Investing System and staying in sync with the market trend. Notice: Information contained herein is not and should not be construed as an offer, solicitation, or recommendation to buy or sell securities. The information has been obtained from sources we believe to be reliable; however no guarantee is made or implied with respect to its accuracy, timeliness, or completeness. Authors may own the stocks they discuss. The information and content are subject to change without notice. *Real-time prices by Bats®. Volume delayed. Real-time quote and/or trade prices are not sourced from all markets. © 2000-2017 Investor's Business Daily, Inc. All rights reserved