Should you join him? Don't make snap decisions Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! Looking at the universe of stocks we cover at Dividend Channel , on 2/15/17, Bio-Techne Corp (Symbol: TECH), 3M Co (Symbol: MMM), and Park National Corp. (Symbol: PRK) will all trade ex-dividend for their respective upcoming dividends. Bio-Techne Corp will pay its quarterly dividend of $0.32 on 3/3/17, 3M Co will pay its quarterly dividend of $1.175 on 3/12/17, and Park National Corp. will pay its quarterly dividend of $0.94 on 3/10/17. As a percentage of TECH's recent stock price of $103.69, this dividend works out to approximately 0.31%, so look for shares of Bio-Techne Corp to trade 0.31% lower - all else being equal - when TECH shares open for trading on 2/15/17. Similarly, investors should look for MMM to open 0.65% lower in price and for PRK to open 0.89% lower, all else being equal. Below are dividend history charts for TECH, MMM, and PRK, showing historical dividends prior to the most recent ones declared. Bio-Techne Corp (Symbol: TECH) : makeArticleAd(); 3M Co (Symbol: MMM) : Park National Corp. (Symbol: PRK) : In general, dividends are not always predictable, following the ups and downs of company profits over time. Therefore, a good first due diligence step in forming an expectation of annual yield going forward, is looking at the history above, for a sense of stability over time. This can help in judging whether the most recent dividends from these companies are likely to continue. If they do continue, the current estimated yields on annualized basis would be 1.23% for Bio-Techne Corp, 2.62% for 3M Co, and 3.55% for Park National Corp. . In Monday trading, Bio-Techne Corp shares are currently up about 0.4%, 3M Co shares are up about 0.3%, and Park National Corp. shares are trading flat on the day. Click here to learn which 25 S.A.F.E. dividend stocks should be on your radar screen » The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.