In what has become a familiar ritual, 3M (NYSE: MMM ) declared a hike in its quarterly dividend. The company will pay its stockholders $1.175 per share, 6% more than the previous payout. This is entirely in character for 3M, as it's a Dividend Aristocrat -- one of the small group of stocks that have raised their payouts at least once annually for a minimum of 25 years running. Indeed, 3M is one of the leading Aristocrat in terms of longevity -- few companies have kept their streaks alive more than the 59 years that 3M achieves with this latest raise. Zooming out further, the company has paid shareholders a dividend for 100 years. The company has managed to raise its profitability of late. In its recently reported fourth quarter, net income rose a sturdy 11%, to almost $1.2 billion. Revenue, however, was basically flat at $7.3 billion. This is a concern, as it indicates the company is struggling to grow organically. Meanwhile, it is spending heavily on dividends and share buybacks, to the point where these activities combined have exceeded net profit. Additionally, 3M has recently been trimming its spending on research and development, a potentially worrying development given the company's reliance on innovation. Yet given how the stock has traded, perhaps shareholders aren't overly concerned. Over the past year, the company's shares rose by more than 15%. 3M's upcoming dividend is to be paid on March 12 to stockholders of record as of Feb. 17. The new amount would yield 2.7% on the current share price, which beats the nearly 2% average of dividend-paying stocks on the S P 500. 10 stocks we like better than 3M When investing geniuses David and Tom Gardner have a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor , has tripled the market.* David and Tom just revealed what they believe are the 10 best stocks for investors to buy right now... and 3M wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys. Click here to learn about these picks! *Stock Advisor returns as of February 6, 2017 Eric Volkman has no position in any stocks mentioned. Want to learn how to invest? Delivered twice a week, straight to your inbox.