Should you join him? Don't make snap decisions Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! ResMed Inc. ( RMD ) will begin trading ex-dividend on February 07, 2017. A cash dividend payment of $0.33 per share is scheduled to be paid on March 16, 2017. Shareholders who purchased RMD prior to the ex-dividend date are eligible for the cash dividend payment. This marks the 3rd quarter that RMD has paid the same dividend. The previous trading day's last sale of RMD was $68.21, representing a -3.79% decrease from the 52 week high of $70.90 and a 23.73% increase over the 52 week low of $55.13. RMD is a part of the Health Care sector, which includes companies such as 3M Company ( MMM ) and Stryker Corporation ( SYK ). RMD's current earnings per share, an indicator of a company's profitability, is $2.3. Zacks Investment Research reports RMD's forecasted earnings growth in 2017 as 4.73%, compared to an industry average of 6.8%. For more information on the declaration, record and payment dates, visit the RMD Dividend History page. Our Dividend Calendar has the full list of stocks that have an ex-dividend today. Interested in gaining exposure to RMD through an Exchange Traded Fund [ETF]? The following ETF(s) have RMD as a top-10 holding: Vanguard S P Mid-Cap 400 Growth ETF ( IVOG ) Vanguard S P Mid-Cap 400 ETF ( IVOO ) iShares Core S P Mid-Cap ETF ( IJH ). The top-performing ETF of this group is IJH with an increase of 10.04% over the last 100 days. IVOG has the highest percent weighting of RMD at 1.2%. The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.