Should you join him? Don't make snap decisions Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! Monday, February 6 2017 Today's Research Daily features new research reports on 16 major stocks, including General Electric (GE), Altria (MO) and UnitedHealth (UNH). General Electric shares have lagged the market over the last three months, gaining only +1.3% on concerns about the conglomerate's order backlog and continued weakness in the energy end-market. This issue notwithstanding, the company has done an excellent job of its plan to reduce its exposure to finance and get back to its industrial and engineering roots. To that end, it is enjoying strong momentum in the power and aviation end markets, partly offset by continued weakness in the energy space. General Electric reported relatively healthy fourth-quarter results and has offered a bullish guidance for 2017 on healthy growth dynamics. (You can read the full research report on General Electric here . ) Altria shares have outperformed the Zacks Consumer Staples sector in the past three months, gaining +9.5% vs a -0.8% decline. Altria reported mixed fourth quarter earnings though earnings and revenue increased year-over-year. The analyst is optimistic about Altria's subsidiary, Nu Mark LLC, which expanded the distribution of MarkTen XL e-vapor products and Green Smoke e-cigarettes in several lead markets. Overall, the company's growing market share in the e-cigarette category and efforts to adapt to the evolving consumer trends and develop less harmful alternative tobacco products are encouraging. However, higher fees associated with litigations and the FDA's anti-smoking campaigns are hurting profitability. (You can read the full research report on Altria here. ) Buy rated UnitedHealth shares have gained 47.1% over the last one year, underperforming the Zacks Medical Health Maintenance Organization industry, which has gained 38.2% over the same period. UnitedHealth's better-than-expected earnings were driven by strong results from both UnitedHealth Care and Optum segments. The company also reaffirmed the previously issued guidance for 2017. The analyst stresses that the company is consistently gaining from the Medicaid and Medicare businesses. Continued growth at Optum is also creating a diversified revenue source. Also, UnitedHealth should benefit from its capital strength and niche market position. But losses on public exchange business and higher operating costs are some of the headwinds. You can read the full research report on UnitedHealth here. ) Other noteworthy reports we are featuring today include 3M (MMM), Caterpillar (CAT) and Phillips 66 (PSX). Today's Long-Term Buys Sells Today you can gain access to the best long-term trades unearthed by Zacks Research. These moves have double and triple-digit profit potential and are rarely available to the public. Starting now, you can look inside our stocks under $10, home run and value stock portfolios, plus more. Want a peek at this private information? Click here Mark Vickery Senior Editor Note: Sheraz Mian heads the Zacks Equity Research department and is a well-regarded expert of aggregate earnings. He is frequently quoted in the print and electronic media and publishes the weekly  Earnings Trends  and  Earnings Preview  reports. If you want an email notification each time Sheraz publishes a new article, please  click here   GE (GE) Q4 Earnings in Sync, 2017 Guidance Bullish Altria (MO) Earnings Beat, Sales Miss due to Lower Volume UnitedHealth (UNH) Q4 Earnings Beat, Enrollment Grows Phillips 66 (PSX) Misses on Q4 Earnings, Revenues Beat The Zacks analyst believes that lower refining margins for reduced market crack spread led Phillips 66 to post lower-than-expected earnings. 3M (MMM) Marginally Beats, Reiterates 2017 Guidance 3M's fourth-quarter 2016 earnings marginally beat the Zacks Consensus Estimate by $0.01. 3M is restructuring its portfolio to revive its growth momentum and reaffirmed its guidance for 2017. BCE Inc. (BCE) Misses on Q4 Earnings, Revenues Grow Y/Y The covering analyst thinks although BCE's strategic business moves have helped it generate more revenues year over year, the company continues to witness a decline in revenue in the Wireline segment. Boston Scientific (BSX) Beats on Q4 Earnings, View Strong The Zacks analyst thinks despite foreign exchange headwind and dull defibrillator result, Boston Scientific's promising fourth quarter show was based on innovations and strong global performance. Parker-Hannifin (PH) Q2 Earnings Beat on New Win Strategy According to the covering analyst, going ahead, the CLARCOR and Helac acquisitions will likely prove to be key growth catalysts. Caterpillar (CAT) Q4 Earnings Beat, Headwinds Persist in 2017 The covering analyst thinks the recent improvement in commodity prices is not enough to drive the much needed growth in equipment demand. Electronic Arts (EA) Posts Better-than-Expected Q3 Earnings The Zacks analyst believes strength in its franchises and digital business along with cost cutting will help EA sustain the momentum going ahead. A.O. Smith (AOS) Beats on Q4 Earnings, End Markets Thrive A.O. Smith beat Q4 earnings on a robust top line. Compelling growth prospects in key end markets, benefits from the Aquasana buyout and sound financials signal at brighter days ahead. Central Garden Pet (CENT) Tops Q1 Earnings Revenues Central Garden Pet reported robust first-quarter results. Per the Zacks analyst, organic growth, value accretive acquisitions and divestment of non-strategic assets have been aiding its performance. Hartford (HIG) Beats on Q4 Earnings on Higher Revenues The covering analyst thinks Hartford's strong earnings was driven by its strong foothold in the property casualty market, actions taken to improve risk profile and efficient capital deployments Adobe (ADBE) Hurt by Lower End Market Demand The Zacks analyst believes that lower end-market demand as a result of weak global economic conditions could impact Adobe. Also, significant exposure to Europe remains a major concern. Shutterfly (SFLY) Lags Q4 Expectations; Provides Dim View Shutterfly reported weak performance in Q4 as margins suffered due to rising costs, per the covering analyst. Structural changes spell out a tough year ahead that could weigh heavily on revenue growth. SurModics (SRDX) Beats on Q1 Earnings Revenue, Falls Y/Y The Zacks analyst is bullish on SurModics' stable Q1 results, wherein the company beat the Zacks Consensus Estimate on both counts. However performance in In Vitro Diagnostics segment raises concern. The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.