Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! Reportedly, Facebook Inc. FB has rolled out a new job search feature whereby employers can now list jobs free of charge on their respective pages. Prospective candidates can apply for the same on Facebook. The feature, at present, will be available in the U.S and Canada. Reports of Facebook beta testing the feature first surfaced in November.  Similar to other job search portals, the Job tabs will offer the standard "Apply Now" button. It will help applicants to edit and review forms before submission. Employers and candidates are expected to employ Messenger for communication, further add media reports. Facebook's VP Andrew Bosworth was quoted by media reports saying "Businesses and people already use Facebook to fill and find jobs, so we're rolling out new features that allow job posting and application directly on Facebook." Facebook, Inc. Price Facebook, Inc. Price | Facebook, Inc. Quote The social media giant's foray into the recruiting business is widely observed as a sort of threat for Microsoft Corporation's MSFT LinkedIn. LinkedIn is the biggest professional network enabling users to connect and engage with other professionals, access shared knowledge, exchange ideas and insight about different professions and companies, and search business opportunities. Per analysts, businesses will have to pay Facebook for displaying their job postings on the News Feed, which can prove to be a threat for some of LinkedIn's ad offerings. Plus, Facebook's giant user base of nearly 1.9 billion compared with a little over 460 million LinkedIn users gives Facebook an edge. It could attract more recruiters to the platform. Facebook has been actively venturing into newer arenas to boost its top line. The company recently forayed into enterprise software by launching  Workplace . With Workplace, the social media giant is trying to break into the lucrative enterprise software market. Per a Jun 2016 Gartner report, global spending for enterprise software will grow 7% year over year to $367.5 billion in 2016. This is a lucrative opportunity for Facebook, given the higher margins involved. At present, Facebook has a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). Moreover, we note that Facebook has outperformed the Zacks categorized  Internet Services  industry in the last one year. The company's shares increased 31.32% compared with the industry's gain of 16.80%. Key Pick Better-ranked stocks in the wider technology space are Oclaro Inc. OCLR and MeetMe Inc. MEET . Oclaro sports a ZacksRank #1 (Strong Buy) while MeetMe carries a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy). You can see  the complete list of today's Zacks #1Rank stocks here . In the trailing four quarters, Oclaro and MeetMe have recorded a positive average earnings surprise of 75.00% and 36.07%, respectively. Just Released - Driverless Cars: Your Roadmap to Mega-Profits Today In this latest Special Report, Zacks' Aggressive Growth Strategist Brian Bolan explores a full-blown technological breakthrough in the making - autonomous cars. He also spotlights 8 stocks with tremendous gain potential to feed off this phenomenon. Click to see the stocks right now The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.