BREAKING:  Dow, S P 500 Stay Down; Nasdaq Inches Into Positive Ground Need to register? Current subscribers register here . General Electric, along with Apple and Microsoft, led in Q3 buybacks and dividends. (GE) Apple ( AAPL ) and General Electric ( GE ), followed by Microsoft ( MSFT ), all part of the Dow Jones industrial average, spent more on stock buybacks and dividends in the third quarter than any other companies in the S P 500, says the latest tally by FactSet Research. Apple spent $7.2 billion on buybacks, with General Electric coming in at $4.3 billion and Microsoft at $3.55 billion. They were followed by Allergan ( AGN ) at $3.2 billion and McDonald's ( MCD ), another Dow industrials component, at $2.77 billion, says the report by FactSet . Apple led the pack in shareholder dividends, spending $3 billion. Next came Microsoft at $2.8 billion, then GE at $2.1 billion. Share repurchases are a popular way to return capital to shareholders, tending to boost a stock and per-share earnings, while dividends put cash in shareholders' hands. Companies in the S P 500 in total spent $115.6 billion on share buybacks during Q3, the smallest quarterly total since Q1 2013. As has been the norm, the information technology sector was the top spending group in terms of dollar-value buybacks, totaling $27 billion. It was followed by the financial sector at $25 billion. Aggregate buybacks in Q3 represented a 28% decline from the year-ago quarter, which was the largest year-over-year decrease since Q3 2009. Apple stock, which on Wednesday touched an all-time high of 136.27 and has been on a roll since posting a December-quarter beat on Jan. 31, fell 0.1% to 135.19 in morning trading in the stock market today . GE stock was down 0.8% to 30.20 intraday, while Microsoft was off 0.1% to 64.47. Microsoft stock touched a record high of 65.91 on Jan. 27. RELATED: Apple, Microsoft, Alphabet Are Kings Of Cash As Tech Sector Rules Apple, Exxon Mobil Lead S P 500 In Q2 Dividends Paid Apple will start assembling its lower-priced iPhone SE smartphone at a contract manufacturer's plant in southern India in April, according to media reports. (Nattakit Jeerapatmaitree/Shutterstock) 12:43 PM ET Apple will start assembling its lower-priced iPhone SE smartphone at a contract manufacturer's plant in southern India in April, according... 12:43 PM ET Apple will start assembling its lower-priced iPhone SE smartphone at... The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association recommends that bond markets shutter on Monday as well. (AP) FANG CEOs Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, Reed Hastings and Larry Page. (AP) Find the broker that's right for you with IBD's annual list of the Best Online Brokers. Get 4 free weeks of the IBD Digital edition plus access to IBD s exclusive market analysis, proprietary stock ratings and interactive tools. Stay on top of the market with IBD s exclusive videos. You will find the latest news, market analysis, and education to help you become a more successful investor. Get the most out of IBD s products and features by learning the CAN SLIM Investing System and staying in sync with the market trend. Notice: Information contained herein is not and should not be construed as an offer, solicitation, or recommendation to buy or sell securities. The information has been obtained from sources we believe to be reliable; however no guarantee is made or implied with respect to its accuracy, timeliness, or completeness. Authors may own the stocks they discuss. The information and content are subject to change without notice. *Real-time prices by Bats®. Volume delayed. Real-time quote and/or trade prices are not sourced from all markets. © 2000-2017 Investor's Business Daily, Inc. All rights reserved