Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! US investment major Blackstone ( BX ) said on Thursday that funds which it manages have acquired a majority stake in London-headquartered Cloudreach, adding that it is targeting additional investments in the technology firm going forwards. Blackstone, which had $367 billion of assets under management as of the end of 2016, did not disclose the value of the stake, but said that it sees 'a significant opportunity to ignite dramatic growth' in the business in the years ahead, pointing to research which indicates that the field of cloud services will grow substantially over the next three years "The public cloud services market is expected to grow into a $236 billion industry by 2020 according to Forrester," Dave Johnson, a senior advisor to Blackstone, said in Blackstone's statement. "Additionally, Bain Company estimates that 60% of all IT growth will be related to the cloud in the coming years". "We are entering into this industry at a key inflection point and will seek to make additional investments to accelerate and expand Cloudreach's capabilities," he added. Founded in 2009, Cloudreach provides cloud-based services and counts publishers Time Inc. and Hearst as well as travel booking platforms Skyscanner and Trainline among its clients. Johnson will become chairman of the board of directors at Cloudreach and Pontus Noren, the cloud provider's co-founder will become its chief executive, Blackstone said. "This investment by Blackstone will allow us to continue to expand our geographic reach, our software development capabilities, and further automate and expand our managed services, cloud operations capabilities," Noren said. The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Copyright (C) 2016 MTNewswires.com. All rights reserved. Unauthorized reproduction is strictly prohibited. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.