{{contrib_block.display_author.name}} Voice Paul Tassi , {{contrib_block.display_author.type}} Contributor {{contrib_block.display_author.type}} Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile '"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. (Photo: Microsoft) Today the Halo Wars 2 review embargo has broken , and the game seems to be averaging 8/10s across the board, fairly solid, perhaps not spectacular, but the refrain is clear. This is a good console RTS. However, “a good console RTS” is a bit of a weird phrase in a genre that has almost been exclusively defined by PC since its inception. To be frank, I’ve been struggling with Halo Wars 2 on Xbox One. I got my code late, so I didn’t want to sprint through the game to try to hit the review embargo, but I’ve been playing it a lot the last few days and have some (unscored) thoughts all the same. While the controls are good “for a console RTS,” I’ve still had problems with them as I’ve played even the early missions on Xbox. I know I probably haven’t been at it long enough, but nothing really feels intuitive. Fundamentally, RTS games need cursors, and navigating one around with a joystick never feels right, even though the team has bent over backwards to try to ensure there are simplified controls. You can select local units, global units, a range of units, divide units into groups, snap back to your base, snap back to combat, a lot of tools that make the game definitely playable, but enjoyable? Not so much, for me at least. Enter PC. Lest we forget, Microsoft has done a rather weird, kind of cool thing for a while now called “Xbox Play Anywhere.” What that means is that if you own a game on Xbox One, you also own a PC version of that game as well, for free, with shared save/account data. (Photo: Microsoft) I have not really used this feature to date. While it’s available on a number of Xbox exclusives, I never really felt the need to play say, Gears of War 4 on PC, given that my experience with the last three games has always been on Xbox, and the game fits like a glove with console controls. But Halo Wars 2 ? Halo Wars 2 was made for Xbox Play Anywhere. I cannot tell you how much my opinion of the game has improved now that I’m able to use traditional mouse and keyboard controls for it via Xbox Play Anywhere. The process was simple. I went to the Windows Store, was told I already owned the game, downloaded the 27 GB and ran it. There, the game automatically connected with my Xbox version and I got to jump into the exact mission I was just starting as the save files synced. I’m not sure I need to go into great deal about all the advantages offered by a mouse in keyboard in RTS play, but it is way easier to send separate groups of units to multiple points on the map, it is way easier to jump around the map by clicking on the minimap, it is way easier to micro injured units out of harm’s way. I’m not saying all this stuff is impossible to do on console, but while I wrestled with the well-intentioned controls there, after decades of StarCraft, Command and Conquer, Age of Empires and the like, Halo Wars 2 on PC felt like home. This is one instance where crossing platforms has totally revitalized my interest in a game. I always did like the original Halo Wars , as similarly, it did console RTS controls decently well, but the last thing I was comparing it to at the time was the abysmal StarCraft 64. But now here, when you have the option to play the game purely on PC, I don’t know why I’d want to ever do anything else. (Photo: Microsoft) My only curiosity about Halo Wars 2 being an Xbox Play Anywhere game was multiplayer, because I distinctly remember Microsoft saying it supported cross-platform play a while back, meaning console players could play against PC. I haven’t been able to play multiplayer on PC yet because so few of the early testers have been playing on that platform, which means that no, in the end, Microsoft did decide to separate console and PC play. They never said why, but playing both versions of the game, the answer is obvious. Like with shooters, PC RTS players would wipe the floor with their console counterparts. Again, I have not played enough Halo Wars 2 on either platform to come up with a full review and score yet, but this poses a curious question. If I did write one, am I doing it for PC or Xbox One? This is the first Play Anywhere title where I think that distinction makes a big difference, so I’ll have to think about that. Given that I only want to play it on PC, I’ll probably stick with that. Overall, Halo Wars 2 seems to have a surprisingly good story, the missions are fun, and I like what I’ve tried of the game’s new Blitz mode. I don’t think it will scratch the ultra-competitive itch of RTS players looking for an extremely well-designed, well-balanced game in the genre, but those glory days may be behind us, and this is an RTS for a different generation and a different marketplace. I’m going to keep playing, and may have more thoughts to come, but for now, I thought it was important to highlight how this was the first really important test case of console vs. PC play via Xbox Play Anywhere. If you can choose the latter platform, I would. Follow me on Twitter and on Facebook . Pick up my sci-fi series, The Earthborn Trilogy , which is now in print, online and on audiobook .