NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Pfizer Inc. ( PFE ) announced today top-line results from ORAL Strategy, a Phase 3B/4 study of XELJANZ ® (tofacitinib citrate) 5mg twice daily (BID) in the treatment of moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis (RA). ORAL Strategy is the first trial to compare a JAK inhibitor as monotherapy or in combination with methotrexate (MTX) versus adalimumab (Humira) plus MTX in MTX inadequate responders using ACR50 at Month 6 as the primary endpoint. There were three comparisons, which found: “ORAL Strategy is representative of the type of innovative and clinically meaningful trials that Pfizer Inflammation Immunology believes are important to help advance patient care and the science of JAK inhibition,” said Michael Corbo, Chief Development Officer, Inflammation Immunology, Global Product Development. “We are pleased that we demonstrated non-inferiority of XELJANZ plus MTX versus Humira plus MTX, reinforcing the efficacy of XELJANZ combination therapy. We will continue to analyze the monotherapy data from this study and look forward to sharing the full results of ORAL Strategy at an upcoming scientific forum.” ORAL Strategy is a 12-month, double-blind, head-to-head study which included 1,152 patients randomized into one of three study arms that were independently compared against each other: The safety findings were consistent with the known adverse events and serious adverse events profile for XELJANZ. The RA clinical development program has over 20 clinical trials and to-date represents more than 21,100 patient-years of drug exposure. The long-term extension program, spanning over eight years of safety experience, is one of the largest in the RA category with respect to number of patients and patient-years of exposure. About XELJANZ (tofacitinib citrate) and XELJANZ XR (tofacitinib citrate) extended-release XELJANZ ® /XELJANZ XR ® (tofacitinib citrate) is a prescription medicine called a JAK inhibitor. XELJANZ has been approved for use in more than 50 countries. Since XELJANZ was first approved in the U.S. in 2012, it has been prescribed to more than 90,000 patients worldwide. In the United States, Argentina, and Macau, XELJANZ XR is the first once-daily oral JAK inhibitor approved for the treatment of moderate to severe RA. Pfizer is committed to advancing the science of JAK inhibition and enhancing the understanding of the efficacy and safety of XELJANZ through robust clinical development programs in the treatment of immune-mediated inflammatory conditions. XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR U.S. Label Information XELJANZ (tofacitinib citrate)/XELJANZ XR (tofacitinib citrate) extended-release is a prescription medicine called a Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor. XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR is used to treat adults with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis in which methotrexate did not work well. XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR may be used as a single agent or in combination with methotrexate (MTX) or other non-biologic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Use of XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR in combination with biologic DMARDs or potent immunosuppressants, such as azathioprine and cyclosporine, is not recommended. Important Safety Information It is not known if XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR will harm an unborn baby. To monitor the outcomes of pregnant women exposed to XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR, a registry has been established. Physicians are encouraged to register patients and pregnant women are encouraged to register themselves by calling 1-877-311-8972. Please click the direct link to the full US Prescribing Information for XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR, including Boxed Warning and Medication Guide: http://labeling.pfizer.com/ShowLabeling.aspx?id=959 . Pfizer Inc.: Working together for a healthier world ® At Pfizer, we apply science and our global resources to bring therapies to people that extend and significantly improve their lives. We strive to set the standard for quality, safety and value in the discovery, development and manufacture of healthcare products. Our global portfolio includes medicines and vaccines as well as many of the world's best-known consumer healthcare products. Every day, Pfizer colleagues work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness, prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases of our time. Consistent with our responsibility as one of the world's premier innovative biopharmaceutical companies, we collaborate with health care providers, governments and local communities to support and expand access to reliable, affordable health care around the world. For more than 150 years, Pfizer has worked to make a difference for all who rely on us. For more information, please visit us at www.pfizer.com . In addition, to learn more, follow us on Twitter at @Pfizer and @Pfizer_News , LinkedIn , YouTube and like us on Facebook at Facebook.com/Pfizer . DISCLOSURE NOTICE: The information contained in this release is as of February 16, 2017. Pfizer assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements contained in this release as the result of new information or future events or developments. This release contains forward-looking information about XELJANZ (tofacitinib citrate) that involves substantial risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. Risks and uncertainties include, among other things, the uncertainties inherent in research and development, including, without limitation, the ability to meet anticipated trial commencement and completion dates and regulatory submission dates, as well as the possibility of unfavorable clinical trial results, including unfavorable new clinical data and additional analyses of existing clinical data; uncertainties regarding the commercial success of XELJANZ and XELJANZ XR; uncertainties regarding the commercial impact of the results of the ORAL Strategy trial; whether and when any other applications for XELJANZ or XELJANZ XR may be filed with regulatory authorities in any jurisdictions; whether and when regulatory authorities in any jurisdictions may approve any such applications and/or any other applications that are pending (including the marketing authorization application currently under review by the European Medicines Agency for the treatment of moderate to severe active RA in adult patients who have responded inadequately to, or who are intolerant to one or more disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs. XELJANZ can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to MTX or when treatment with MTX is inappropriate) or may be filed for XELJANZ or XELJANZ XR, which will depend on the assessment by such regulatory authorities of the benefit-risk profile suggested by the totality of the efficacy and safety information submitted; decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling and other matters that could affect the availability or commercial potential of XELJANZ/XELJANZ XR; and competitive developments. A further description of risks and uncertainties can be found in Pfizer’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 and in its subsequent reports on Form 10-Q, including in the sections thereof captioned “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results”, as well as in its subsequent reports on Form 8-K, all of which are filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and available at www.sec.gov and www.pfizer.com . View source version on businesswire.com: http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20170216005397/en/ .bwalignc {text-align: center !important;} .bwlistitemmargb {margin-bottom: 10.0px !important;} ;} Dont-Tase-Me-Bro: Why is Trump more angry with the leaks than the content of the leaks?? 2.7k