Yesterday, we noted rumors that pharmaceutical companies including Roche , Novartis ( NVS ), Pfizer ( PFE ), and maybe even Gilead Sciences ( GILD ) were considering making a play for Bristol-Myers Squibb ( BMY ). Bristol-Myers, remember, has lost nearly a third of its value during the past seven months thanks to to the failure of its trial for a lung-cancer drug making it look like a bargain in the eyes of Barron s Johanna Bennett but has been catching a bid thanks to the possibility of a buyout. Deutsche Bank s Gregg Gilbert and Esther Rajavel suspect Pfizer won t be a player, however. They explain why: There has been some speculation ( Street insider ) in the marketplace that PFE may be interested in taking over BMY. While we assume PFE is constantly assessing various deals large and small, and management has not been shy about acknowledging the potential for it to do a large deal in what is a fragmented industry with excess capacity, we would be surprised to see PFE make a move on BMY at this stage. An acquisition of BMY would represent a very large and concentrated opportunity/risk ($90bn market cap + a premium) on immuno-oncology, an area fraught with near-term uncertainty, and one in which PFE already has at least a partial strategy in place. We believe that if PFE management were to deploy $90bn or more on a deal, it would prefer to have a more diverse set of value drivers (in addition to a cost rationalization story). In addition, PFE already has a very significant stake in the large and growing Eliqius opportunity. We are sticking with our Buy rating on PFE and Hold on BMY. Shares of Pfizer have gained 1.1% to $33.12 at 12:06 p.m. today, while Bristol-Myers Squibb has risen 0.7% to $54.11, Gilead Sciences has climbed 2.1% to $68.98, and Novartis has advanced 0.3% to $75.40. Error message ! Earnings reports, corporate strategies and analyst insights are all part of what moves stocks, and they re all covered by the Stocks to Watch blog. We also look at macro issues, investor sentiments and hidden trends that are affecting the market. Stocks to Watch gives you the full picture of the U.S. stock markets, all day long. The blog is written by Ben Levisohn, a former stock trader who has covered financial markets for the Wall Street Journal, Bloomberg and BusinessWeek. Write to Ben at Ben.Levisohn@barrons.com Follow @ben_levisohn // Your email has been sent. An error has occured and your email has not been sent. Please try again .