BREAKING:  Dow, S P 500 Stay Down; Nasdaq Inches Into Positive Ground Need to register? Current subscribers register here . Oppenheimer said higher-than-expected profits from Amazon's cloud business should alleviate concerns about the company's spending spree on retail distribution. (wawritto/Shutterstock) Analyst actions on Wednesday included price-target hikes for Amazon ( AMZN ), Procter Gamble ( PG ) and Humana ( HUM ), while Fossil Group ( FOSL ) and Under Armour ( UAA ) both saw downgrades. Oppenheimer raised its price target on the online retail and web services company to 970 from 900, keeping an outperform rating. Analyst Jason Helfstein said higher-than-expected profits from Amazon's cloud business should alleviate concerns about the company's spending spree on retail distribution. Amazon shares added 0.8% to 842.70 before the open on the stock market today . RELATED: Amazon Expected To Introduce Line Of Private-Label Intimate Apparel Alphabet, Amazon Are Back In Buy Zones, But Buyer Beware IBD'S TAKE:  Amazon shares are near the top of a 3-month trading range, within 1% of a buy point above 843.84. But Amazon is the No. 11 ranked stock in the IBD Retail-Internet industry group. Visit IBD Stock Checkup to find out who the leaders are, based on stock performance, earnings and sales growth, margins and other factors. Susquehanna downgraded the athletic apparel company to negative from neutral and slashed its price target to 14 to 24. The downgrade comes a day after Morgan Stanley, which had been "underweight" Under Armour for more than a year, finally said the risk-reward was balanced. Susquehanna analyst Sam Poser cited numerous concerns, including reputational risk after "sloppy management commentary" about President Trump put athlete endorsers like Stephen Curry at odds with CEO Kevin Plank. Among other issues, Poser said its $55 hoodies are "too basic" and he expects the company to lose apparel market share in 2017. Shares of Under Armour slipped 0.6% to 21.89 at the close. RELATED: Under Armour, NetApp, Zillow Upgraded; CyberArk A Buy Is Under Armour's CEO Alienating His Star Peddlers Over Trump? Wells Fargo downgraded the watch and accessories company to underperform from market perform, lowering its target range to 13-14 from 22-24. Analyst Ike Boruchow highlighted Fossil's Q4 revenue miss "despite a much hyped push into wearables," noting that management's plan to stimulate wearables demand via lower prices will hit profitability. Fossil shares sank 14.8% to finish at 19.48. RELATED: Diamondback, Devon Energy Beat, Lift Capex Views; Fossil Dives On Miss Fitbit Dives To New Low On Weak Holiday Outlook Jefferies raised its price target for the personal care and cleaning products giant to 101 from 99, keeping a buy rating on the stock, after Nelson Peltz's Trian Fund Management disclosed a $3.5 billion stake. Analyst Kevin Grundy sees potential for a higher multiple thanks to pressure from the activist shareholder to drive cost savings and raise execution. Shares of Procter Gamble surged 3.7% to end the day at 91.12. P G Profit Tops Estimates On Sales Of New, Premium Products Credit Suisse raised its price target on the health insurer to 220 from 208, keeping an outperform rating, after the company officially ended its blocked merger with Aetna ( AET ). Analyst Scott Fidel highlighted the "new sweets" for investors that Humana revealed in announcing the Valentine's Day breakup: above-consensus EPS guidance for 2017, a dividend hike, a new share buyback, and a full exit from its money-losing position in the ObamaCare exchanges. Shares of Humana slipped 0.3% to close at 205.32. RELATED: What's Next For Health Insurers Now That Mergers Thwarted? Apple, Aetna, Humana Downgraded; Comcast PT Raised Ahead Of Q4 The Google Home smart speakers have added features that will compete with Amazon's Echo home speakers. (EPA/Newscom) 12:16 PM ET Google has expanded its grocery delivery business to fresh produce and set up online ordering through its smart home system,... 12:16 PM ET Google has expanded its grocery delivery business to fresh produce... The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association recommends that bond markets shutter on Monday as well. (AP) FANG CEOs Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, Reed Hastings and Larry Page. (AP) Find the broker that's right for you with IBD's annual list of the Best Online Brokers. Get 4 free weeks of the IBD Digital edition plus access to IBD s exclusive market analysis, proprietary stock ratings and interactive tools. Stay on top of the market with IBD s exclusive videos. You will find the latest news, market analysis, and education to help you become a more successful investor. Get the most out of IBD s products and features by learning the CAN SLIM Investing System and staying in sync with the market trend. Notice: Information contained herein is not and should not be construed as an offer, solicitation, or recommendation to buy or sell securities. The information has been obtained from sources we believe to be reliable; however no guarantee is made or implied with respect to its accuracy, timeliness, or completeness. Authors may own the stocks they discuss. The information and content are subject to change without notice. *Real-time prices by Bats®. Volume delayed. Real-time quote and/or trade prices are not sourced from all markets. © 2000-2017 Investor's Business Daily, Inc. All rights reserved