Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA), S P 500 Index (SPX) , and Nasdaq Composite (COMP) all hit record closing highs for the fifth day in a row -- a signal not sounded since the early 1990s -- after President Donald Trump weighed in on his highly anticipated tax plan . A round of SEC filings from hedge funds also helped lift several big-cap stocks -- including Apple Inc. ( AAPL ) -- while Philadelphia Fed President Patrick Harker and Boston Fed President Eric Rosengren reiterated the relatively hawkish tone taken by their colleagues this week. Additionally, traders digested Fed Chair Janet Yellen's final day on Capitol Hill, which followed this morning's economic data . Continue reading for more on today's market, including: The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA - 20,611.86) notched a new all-time intraday high of 20,620.45, before settling up 107.5 points, or 0.5%. Of the 30 Dow stocks, 24 ended higher, with Procter Gamble Co ( PG ) leading the way with its 3.7% advance. Merck Co., Inc. ( MRK ) paced the six decliners with its 0.8% loss. The S P 500 Index (SPX - 2,349.25) added 11.7 points, or 0.5%, and also notched a new intraday high of 2,351.30. Meanwhile, the Nasdaq Composite (COMP - 5,819.44) gained 36.9 points, or 0.6%, after hitting an all-time intraday high of 5,821.95. The CBOE Volatility Index (VIX - 11.97) added 1.2 points, or 11.5%. 5 Items on Our Radar Today Verizon Communications Inc. ( VZ ) is reportedly nearing a renegotiated deal with Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) that would knock about $250 million off the previous $4.8 billion deal for YHOO's core internet business. The talks began when several serious security breaches were revealed by YHOO. (Bloomberg) Retail giant Wal-Mart Stores Inc (WMT) has purchased outdoor gear retailer Moosejaw in a deal worth $51 million. WMT is reportedly looking to expand its reach into the increasingly competitive online apparel sales sector, which is currently dominated by Amazon.com, Inc. (AMZN) and Macy's Inc (M). (Fortune) First Solar, Inc. (FSLR) just flashed a historically bullish technical signal . Data courtesy of Trade-Alert Commodities March-dated crude futures fell 9 cents, or 0.2%, to settle at $53.11 per barrel, as data showed U.S. crude supplies rose for a sixth consecutive week to hit a record peak. Plus, gasoline inventories unexpectedly increased, also topping out at an all-time high. April-dated gold futures tacked on $7.70, or 0.6%, to close at $1,233.10 an ounce -- snapping its four-session losing streak -- after the dollar gave up early Fed-induced gains. Get your daily dose of Dow futures, stock news, and more with Schaeffer's Opening View . The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.