Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice Trading Tips Procter Gamble Co (NYSE: PG ) stock was up on Wednesday following news of an investment by Trian Fund Management. The investment from Trian has it taking a $3.5 billion stake in Procter Gamble Co.  It is likely that Trian is interested in reducing the size of the company. PG has already been working on this and sold 41 of its brands last year. The $3.5 billion stake in Procter Gamble Co is the largest that Trian has ever taken out . Its decision to invest in Procter Gamble Co lines up with its focus on consumer brand companies. It's strategies include investing in companies to gain board seats so that it can reduce expenses and increase revenue. Trian may push for board seats at Procter Gamble now that it has such a large investment in the company. PG has until June 13 to nominate more members to its board and it's likely that Trian will be looking to negotiate for some of those seats, reports Reuters . Trian's $3.5 billion stake in Procter Gamble Co comes to roughly  6.42 million shares . While the activist investor will likely try to slim the company down, it may meet resistance. PG's last earnings report saw it beat out Wall Street's earnings per share and revenue estimates for that quarter. This may give it a strong position to argue against further slimming of the company. "P G welcomes investment in our company," Damon Jones, a Procter Gamble Co spokesman, told Reuters . "We will continue to do what we always do." PG stock was up 3% as of noon Wednesday. The post Procter Gamble Co (PG) Stock Jumps on $3.5B Trian Stake appeared first on InvestorPlace . The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.