BREAKING:  Dow, S P 500 Stay Down; Nasdaq Inches Into Positive Ground Need to register? Current subscribers register here . Stocks powered to record highs again Wednesday to extend their win streak amid bullish economic data and President Trump's "massive" tax-cut rhetoric. The Nasdaq and S P 500 rose 0.6% and 0.5%, respectively, to extend their advance for a seventh straight session. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 0.5% for a fifth consecutive advance. The small-cap Russell 2000 also added 0.5%. Volume was higher across the board vs. Tuesday, according to preliminary numbers. Strong retail sales and New York manufacturing data sparked early gains that were further fueled by Trump, who told retail executives his "massive" tax plan would be coming soon and would simplify the tax code. Generic drug, wood products and airlines were among top gainers in the stock market today , while oil, metal ores miners and fiber optics stocks underperformed. Procter Gamble ( PG ) led the Dow with a 4% pop in heavy trade, making its highest level in two years. Shares are still in buy range from an 88.07 cup-with-handle entry. Activist investor Trian Fund Management on Tuesday disclosed a $3.5 billion stake in the personal care products giant. Jefferies boosted its price target to 101 from 99 and maintained a buy rating. Apple ( AAPL ) pared an early 1% gain to 0.4% despite news that investor Warren Buffett and Greenlight Capital's David Einhorn boosted their stakes in the iPhone maker. Still, the advance marked Apple's second straight all-time high. Buffett upped his stake in the iPhone maker to 57.4 million shares in Q4, from 15.2 million in Q3., while Einhorn raised his stake by 11% to more than 5.8 million shares. Delta Air Lines ( DAL ) lifted 3% in fast trade as it shapes the right side of a base. A regulatory filing Tuesday showed Buffett in Q4 added to his stakes in American Airlines ( AAL ), Delta Air Lines and United Continental ( UAL ), and also took a 43.2 million-share stake in Southwest Airlines ( LUV ). George Soros took a 40,000-share stake in Delta in Q4 but exited United Continental. Hedge fund Appaloosa Management, meantime, bought a 160,000-share stake in United and doubled its position in Southwest. United and Southwest rose nearly 3% and 4%, respectively. United is near a 17-year high as it approaches a 76.90 entry of a flat base. Southwest is at all-time highs and far extended from an early December breakout and subsequent bounce off its 50-day line. American Airlines climbed 2% to reclaim its 50-day line. IBD 50 stock NetEase ( NTES ) gained 2% in average volume ahead of its Q4 earnings due after the close. Analysts expect EPS of $3.44 on $1.58 billion in revenue. Shares of the Chinese online gaming company are in buy range from a 257.78 cup-with-handle entry. Companies reporting earnings Thursday include Arista Networks ( ANET ), Charter Communications ( CHTR ), Hyatt Hotels ( H ), MGM Resorts ( MGM ), TransCanada ( TRP ) and Wendy's ( WEN ). RELATED: NetEase Crushes Q4 Earnings; Stock Soars To Record High Soros Goes For Facebook, Appaloosa Cuts Apple; Airlines Popular Buffett's Berkshire Piles On Shares Of Apple, Airlines, Cuts Wal-Mart Apple will start assembling its lower-priced iPhone SE smartphone at a contract manufacturer's plant in southern India in April, according to media reports. (Nattakit Jeerapatmaitree/Shutterstock) 12:43 PM ET Apple will start assembling its lower-priced iPhone SE smartphone at a contract manufacturer's plant in southern India in April, according... 12:43 PM ET Apple will start assembling its lower-priced iPhone SE smartphone at... The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association recommends that bond markets shutter on Monday as well. (AP) FANG CEOs Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, Reed Hastings and Larry Page. (AP) Find the broker that's right for you with IBD's annual list of the Best Online Brokers. Get 4 free weeks of the IBD Digital edition plus access to IBD s exclusive market analysis, proprietary stock ratings and interactive tools. Stay on top of the market with IBD s exclusive videos. You will find the latest news, market analysis, and education to help you become a more successful investor. Get the most out of IBD s products and features by learning the CAN SLIM Investing System and staying in sync with the market trend. Notice: Information contained herein is not and should not be construed as an offer, solicitation, or recommendation to buy or sell securities. The information has been obtained from sources we believe to be reliable; however no guarantee is made or implied with respect to its accuracy, timeliness, or completeness. Authors may own the stocks they discuss. The information and content are subject to change without notice. *Real-time prices by Bats®. Volume delayed. Real-time quote and/or trade prices are not sourced from all markets. © 2000-2017 Investor's Business Daily, Inc. All rights reserved