BREAKING:  Dow, S P 500 Stay Down; Nasdaq Inches Into Positive Ground Need to register? Current subscribers register here . Stocks traded narrowly higher early Wednesday amid positive economic data and as Fed Chief Janet Yellen's second day of testimony got underway. The Dow Jones industrial average led, thanks to Procter Gamble ( PG ) and Apple ( AAPL ). The Dow Jones industrial average held a 0.2% gain, the Nasdaq composite defended a narrow gain and the S P 500 was effectively flat. Small caps lagged as the Russell 2000 edged 0.1% lower. Volume tracked higher across the board vs. the same time Tuesday. Airlines, department store retailers and managed care providers were among top gainers in today's stock market action, while wholesale jewelry retailers, fiber optics and gold miners underperformed. Procter Gamble led the Dow, gapping up to a 3% jump in heavy trade, making its highest level in two years. Shares are still in buy range from an 88.07 cup-with-handle entry. Activist investor Trian Fund Management on Tuesday disclosed a $3.5 billion stake in the personal care products giant. Jefferies boosted its price target to 101 from 99 and maintained a buy rating. Apple continued to push new highs with a 1% advance in active turnover. The stock is well extended past a 118.12 cup-with-handle buy point cleared in early January. The iPhone maker said Tuesday if the U.S. cuts corporate tax rates, it'll likely boost dividends and share buybacks instead of investing in factories and jobs here. SodaStream International ( SODA ) gapped up and surged 6% to a three-year high in rapid volume after reporting Q4 results that beat views on both the top and bottom lines. Shares, more than 50% extended from a 30.80 cup base cleared in November, were already in profit-taking range ahead of Wednesday's pop. On the IBD 50 , Masimo ( MASI ) soared 4% to an all-time high after the maker of patient monitoring systems reported better-than-expected Q4 results on Wednesday. Shares are far extended from any buy point. NetEase ( NTES ), which reports after the close, was up 2.5% in fast trade. Shares of the Chinese online gaming company are in buy range from a 257.78 cup-with-handle entry. In economic news, consumer prices rose 0.6% in January, doubling December's gain and economists' forecasts for a 0.3% increase. Core prices excluding energy and food climbed 0.3%, also ahead of views. January retail sales slowed to 0.4% from 0.6% in December, easily topping projections for a 0.1% increase. RELATED: Amazon, P G, Humana Get Price-Target Hikes; Under Armour Cut Again Apple will start assembling its lower-priced iPhone SE smartphone at a contract manufacturer's plant in southern India in April, according to media reports. (Nattakit Jeerapatmaitree/Shutterstock) 12:43 PM ET Apple will start assembling its lower-priced iPhone SE smartphone at a contract manufacturer's plant in southern India in April, according... 12:43 PM ET Apple will start assembling its lower-priced iPhone SE smartphone at... The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association recommends that bond markets shutter on Monday as well. (AP) FANG CEOs Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, Reed Hastings and Larry Page. (AP) Find the broker that's right for you with IBD's annual list of the Best Online Brokers. Get 4 free weeks of the IBD Digital edition plus access to IBD s exclusive market analysis, proprietary stock ratings and interactive tools. Stay on top of the market with IBD s exclusive videos. You will find the latest news, market analysis, and education to help you become a more successful investor. Get the most out of IBD s products and features by learning the CAN SLIM Investing System and staying in sync with the market trend. Notice: Information contained herein is not and should not be construed as an offer, solicitation, or recommendation to buy or sell securities. The information has been obtained from sources we believe to be reliable; however no guarantee is made or implied with respect to its accuracy, timeliness, or completeness. Authors may own the stocks they discuss. The information and content are subject to change without notice. *Real-time prices by Bats®. Volume delayed. Real-time quote and/or trade prices are not sourced from all markets. © 2000-2017 Investor's Business Daily, Inc. All rights reserved