DALLAS, Feb. 16, 2017 /PRNewswire/ -- Today, AT T * was recognized by FORTUNE magazine as the Most Admired Telecommunications Company in the world in 2017 for the third year in a row. "Our industry has never been more dynamic than it is right now. And that makes this recognition particularly meaningful," said AT T Chairman and CEO Randall Stephenson. "It's really a tribute to the hard work and customer commitment of each and every employee in the AT T family." The publication also placed AT T at #37 among the Top 50 Most Admired companies in the world. This is our fourth year on the Global Top 50 list. AT T is also the only communications company on the list. We ranked first in all 9 attributes again, including innovation, financial soundness and quality of products/services. FORTUNE's Most Admired Companies lists are among the most highly respected indicators of corporate performance and reputation. FORTUNE and its partner, the Hay Group, survey top executives and directors from FORTUNE 1000 and Global 500 companies and financial analysts to identify the Most Admired Companies. They seek companies with the strongest reputations, both in their own industry and overall. Then, they rate companies on various attributes. This includes ability to attract and retain talented people, quality of products and services, quality of management, innovation, social responsibility, and use of corporate assets and long-term investment value. *AT T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT T Inc. under the AT T brand and not by AT T Inc. About AT T AT T Inc. (NYSE:T) helps millions around the globe connect with leading entertainment, mobile, high speed internet and voice services. We offer entertainment your way on the nation's best data network.* We're one of the world's largest providers of pay TV. We have TV customers in the U.S. and 11 Latin American countries. And we offer the best global coverage of any U.S. wireless provider.** We also help businesses worldwide serve their customers better with our mobility and highly secure cloud solutions. Additional information about AT T products and services is available at http://about.att.com . Follow our news on Twitter at @ATT, on Facebook at http://www.facebook.com/att and YouTube at http://www.youtube.com/att . © 2017 AT T Intellectual Property. All rights reserved. AT T, the Globe logo and other marks are trademarks and service marks of AT T Intellectual Property and/or AT T affiliated companies. All other marks contained herein are the property of their respective owners. * Claim based on the Nielsen Certified Data Network Score. Score includes data reported by wireless consumers in the Nielsen Mobile Insights survey, network measurements from Nielsen Mobile Performance and Nielsen Drive Test Benchmarks for Q2+Q3 2016 across 121 markets. ** Global coverage claim based on offering discounted voice and data roaming; LTE roaming; and voice roaming in more countries than any other U.S. based carrier. International service required. Coverage not available in all areas. Coverage may vary per country and be limited/restricted in some countries. From FORTUNE Magazine, March 1, 2017. © 2017 Time Inc. FORTUNE and The World's Most Admired Companies ® are registered trademarks of Time Inc. and are used under License. FORTUNE and Time Inc. are not affiliated with, and do not endorse products or services of, AT T. To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/att-ranks-1-in-telecom-globally-in-fortunes-most-admired-companies-for-third-year-in-a-row-300408874.html span.p_span{font-size:8pt !important;font-family:"Arial" !important;color:black !important;} a.p_a{color:blue !important;} li.p_li{font-size:8pt !important;font-family:"Arial" !important;color:black !important;} p.p_p{font-size:0.62em !important;font-family:"Arial" !important;color:black !important;margin:0in !important;} ;} J: We need a law that forces anyone purporting to be "news" to clearly label editorials as editorials and advertisement as advertisement. People don't know the difference between objective journalism, editorial, and advertisement. Propaganda is dangerous. 5.1k