DALLAS, Feb. 16, 2017 /PRNewswire/ -- AT T 1 * swept all categories to take the top ranking in the J.D. Power 2017 U.S. Wireless Purchase Experience Full-Service Study SM Volume 1, released today. 2 We are the first carrier to rank highest in all 6 categories evaluated for the Purchase Experience Study. Categories include store sales rep, facility, website, phone sales rep, offerings and promotions and cost of service. This demonstrates the value that AT T provides. Today's ranking marks the 8th time in a row AT T has earned this award. We outscored the full-service industry average and our closest competitor by 14 points, according to the study. "Customers have spoken. And we are thrilled with what they had to say," said Glenn Lurie, president and CEO, AT T Consumer and Mobility Operations. "Add that to our recent award for wireless customer care and that means we swept J.D. Power's 2016 Volume 2 and 2017 Volume 1 Customer Care and Purchase Experience Studies among full service providers. Each of these consecutive studies measures a 6-month period. "Simply put, this means AT T is providing a great overall experience when you shop with us and when you need help with your service at any touchpoint!" AT T received top honors in J.D. Power's Wireless Customer Care rankings released earlier this month – for the second time in a row. 2 J.D. Power presents the Purchase Experience award twice a year. We have earned top honors in the last 8 studies, since 2013. The study took place from July to December 2016, with 8,058 U.S. wireless customers participating. 1 *AT T products and services are provided or offered by subsidiaries and affiliates of AT T Inc. under the AT T brand and not by AT T Inc. 2 AT T received the highest number among providers in the J.D. Power 2013 Volume 2, 2014-2016 (V1 V2), and 2017 Volume 1 U.S. Wireless Purchase Experience Full-Service Performance and 2016 (Vol. 2) and 2017 (Vol. 1) U.S. Wireless Customer Care Full-Service Performance Studies. 2017 Vol 1 studies based on 8,058 (Purchase) and 8,135 (Customer Care) total responses, measuring the perceptions and experiences of current customers, surveyed July-December 2016. Your experiences may vary. Visit jdpower.com About AT T AT T Inc. (NYSE:T) helps millions around the globe connect with leading entertainment, mobile, high speed internet and voice services. We offer entertainment your way on the nation's best data network.* We're one of the world's largest providers of pay TV. We have TV customers in the U.S. and 11 Latin American countries. And we offer the best global coverage of any U.S. wireless provider.** We also help businesses worldwide serve their customers better with our mobility and highly secure cloud solutions. Additional information about AT T products and services is available at http://about.att.com . Follow our news on Twitter at @ATT, on Facebook at http://www.facebook.com/att and YouTube at http://www.youtube.com/att . © 2017 AT T Intellectual Property. All rights reserved. AT T, the Globe logo and other marks are trademarks and service marks of AT T Intellectual Property and/or AT T affiliated companies. All other marks contained herein are the property of their respective owners. * Claim based on the Nielsen Certified Data Network Score. Score includes data reported by wireless consumers in the Nielsen Mobile Insights survey, network measurements from Nielsen Mobile Performance and Nielsen Drive Test Benchmarks for Q2+Q3 2016 across 121 markets. ** Global coverage claim based on offering discounted voice and data roaming; LTE roaming; and voice roaming in more countries than any other U.S. based carrier. International service required. Coverage not available in all areas. Coverage may vary per country and be limited/restricted in some countries. To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/att-sweeps-all-categories-to-take-the-top-ranking-in-jd-power-purchase-experience-full-service-study-300408816.html span.p_span{font-size:8pt !important;font-family:"Arial" !important;color:black !important;} a.p_a{color:blue !important;} li.p_li{font-size:8pt !important;font-family:"Arial" !important;color:black !important;} p.p_p{font-size:0.62em !important;font-family:"Arial" !important;color:black !important;margin:0in !important;} ;} J: We need a law that forces anyone purporting to be "news" to clearly label editorials as editorials and advertisement as advertisement. People don't know the difference between objective journalism, editorial, and advertisement. Propaganda is dangerous. 5.1k