Need to register? Current subscribers register here . AT will ramp up its unlimited-data plans, as rivals do likewise, says an analyst. (AT ) AT T ( T )  late Thursday said it will join Verizon Communications ( VZ ) in offering unlimited-data plans to all wireless customers, and  Sprint ( S ) cut prices on its unlimited plans as wireless competition intensifies. T-Mobile US ( TMUS ) and Sprint aggressively marketed unlimited plans in the second half of 2016, spurring subscriber growth. An Instinet analyst had speculated that AT T would take the move earlier Thursday. Verizon launched its first unlimited plan in six years on Monday. Responding to Verizon's announcement, Sprint on Thursday cut its prices on unlimited data plans for single users by $10 to $50 monthly. For two lines, Sprint will charge $90 monthly for unlimited data, including high-definition quality video. AT T had previously sold unlimited-data plans only to subscribers that also bought its DirecTV or U-Verse video services. AT T ended 2016 with nearly 8 million unlimited-data wireless subscribers. AT T launched the bundled unlimited-data/pay-TV offer in January 2016. The wireless firms are jostling over pricing, with Verizon and AT T plans priced higher than those of Sprint and T-Mobile. Verizon's advertising for years has focused on it having the best wireless network. AT T's pricing is close to Verizon's. T-Mobile's unlimited plan starts at $70 a month for a single line, and two lines are available for $100 a month. Verizon offers a single line of unlimited data for $80 a month with a second line for $60 extra a month. AT T says  it'll charge $100 monthly for one unlimited subscriber, but four lines will cost $180 monthly, the same as Verizon. Jeffrey Kvall, an Instinet analyst, says he met with AT T management this week following Verizon's announcement. IBD'S TAKE: Tesla,   Weibo, and Broadcom are on IBD's  Leaderboard , which follows top stocks from their work on forming bases, through their breakouts, to their post-breakout action, up to the point where they start topping. "While mobile has been holding its own, we consider AT T likely to roll out an unlimited plan to the wider base shortly," said Kvaal in a research report. Kvaal, though, did not describe what pricing or incentives would remain for AT T customers to take the bundled offer. T-Mobile in January said it will only offer unlimited-data plans to postpaid wireless subscribers. Worries over intensified competition has pressured phone company stocks, though speculation over possible mergers continues. AT T stock rose a fraction to 41.23 in the stock market today , eyeing a buy point of 43.13 out of a cup-with-handle base. Verizon stock rose 0.8% to 48.47 but has traded below its 50-day and 200-day lines since last month, when it released disappointing Q4 earnings. Sprint stock fell 1.3% to 9 after touching a 32-month high of 9.65 last month, while T-Mobile stock fell 1.1% to 60.61 after touching a record high of 63.68 last month. One view among analysts is that the proliferation of unlimited-data offers among wireless firms could make it harder for cable TV firms Comcast ( CMCSA ) and Charter Communications ( CHTR ) to break into the wireless business. The cable TV firms hold rights to lease access to Verizon's network on a wholesale basis, under a so-called "MVNO" deal. "AT T did not contest the view that unlimited plans make MVNO economics less appealing," said Kvaal, referring to his meeting with management. T-Mobile added 1.2 million postpaid subscribers in Q4, including 933,000 phone subscribers. Sprint added 368,000 postpaid phone subscribers in Q4, Verizon added 167,000 and AT T lost 67,000. AT T has been the biggest loser of postpaid phone subscribers for two years running. Verizon's unlimited plan, including voice calls and texting, costs $80 monthly plus taxes and fees for single users. A family plan for four subscribers will cost $45 per line, or $180 monthly, plus fees. T-Mobile in January said it will only offer unlimited-data plans to postpaid wireless subscribers. RELATED: Will AT T Cross-Selling Success Spur Comcast Wireless Buy? Verizon Returns To Unlimited Data In Battle Vs. T-Mobile, Sprint Verizon M A Talk Swirls; Charter Stock Up, Yahoo Down Verizon reportedly will pay $250 million less for Yahoo as a result of email breaches at the web portal. (Jonathan Weiss/Shutterstock.com) 2/15/2017 Yahoo reportedly will shave $250 million off its purchase by Verizon, less than some expected, amid lingering questions over two... 2/15/2017 Yahoo reportedly will shave $250 million off its purchase by... In addition to the unveiling of Boeing's 787-10, Trump's appearance at the company's South Carolina plant Friday is expected to include an announcement on the Export-Import Bank. (Boeing) The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association recommends that bond markets shutter on Monday as well. (AP) FANG CEOs Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, Reed Hastings and Larry Page. (AP) Get the latest news, stock quotes and analysis of FANG stocks Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google-parent Alphabet. Get 4 free weeks of the IBD Digital edition plus access to IBD s exclusive market analysis, proprietary stock ratings and interactive tools. Stay on top of the market with IBD s exclusive videos. You will find the latest news, market analysis, and education to help you become a more successful investor. Get the most out of IBD s products and features by learning the CAN SLIM Investing System and staying in sync with the market trend. Notice: Information contained herein is not and should not be construed as an offer, solicitation, or recommendation to buy or sell securities. The information has been obtained from sources we believe to be reliable; however no guarantee is made or implied with respect to its accuracy, timeliness, or completeness. Authors may own the stocks they discuss. The information and content are subject to change without notice. *Real-time prices by Bats®. Volume delayed. Real-time quote and/or trade prices are not sourced from all markets. © 2000-2017 Investor's Business Daily, Inc. All rights reserved