Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! The officers and directors of a company tend to have a unique inside view into the business, so when these insiders make purchases, investors are wise to take notice. Presumably the only reason for a company insider to choose to take their hard-earned cash and use it to buy stock in the open market, is that they expect to make money - maybe they find the stock very undervalued, or maybe they see exciting progress within the company, or maybe both. Within the 30 components of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, only nine companies have experienced such buying over the trailing six month period, one of which was Travelers Companies Inc (Symbol: TRV), where an investment totaling $214.4K was made by Director Philip T. Ruegger III. Click Here to Learn Which Other Eight Dow Components Also Had Recent Insider Buying » Purchased Insider Title Shares Price/Share Value 11/09/2016 Philip T. Ruegger III Director 2,000 $107.19 $214,380.00 Ruegger III's average cost works out to $107.19/share. Shares of Travelers Companies Inc were changing hands at $119.34 at last check, trading down about 0.3% on Monday. The chart below shows the one year performance of TRV shares, versus its 200 day moving average: makeArticleAd(); Looking at the chart above, TRV's low point in its 52 week range is $103.07 per share, with $123.09 as the 52 week high point - that compares with a last trade of $119.34. The current annualized dividend paid by Travelers Companies Inc is $2.68/share, currently paid in quarterly installments, and its most recent dividend has an upcoming ex-date of 03/08/2017. Below is a long-term dividend history chart for TRV, which can be of good help in judging whether the most recent dividend with approx. 2.2% annualized yield is likely to continue. According to the ETF Finder at ETF Channel, TRV makes up 5.62% of the iShares U.S. Insurance ETF (Symbol: IAK) which is trading up by about 0.7% on the day Monday. Click here to find out which other top insider buys by company directors you need to know about » The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.