Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! Genworth Financial, Inc . GNW reported fourth-quarter 2016 net operating loss of 27 cents per share. The Zacks Consensus Estimate was of net operating income of 21 cents per share. The quarterly loss was also wider than a loss of 17 cents per share incurred in the prior-year quarter. The company reported net loss per share of 25 cents, substantially wider than the net loss per share of 59 cents in the prior-year quarter. makeArticleAd(); Operational Performance Total revenue of Genworth dipped approximately 0.7% year over year to $2.157 billion. Decrease of 2.2% in premiums was responsible for the downside. However, a 0.6% improvement in net investment income and a 2.7% increase in policy fees and other income limited the downside. Also, the top line missed the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $2.180 billion. Total benefits and expenses declined 4.4% year over year to $2.3 billion, primarily due to a fall in interest credited, lower acquisition and operating expenses, amortization of deferred acquisition costs and intangibles and decrease in interest expenses. 2016 Highlights Operating loss of 63 cents compared unfavorably with adjusted operating income of 51 cents per share in 2015. Operating revenues of $8.3 billion declined 3.5% from 2015. Segment-Wise Quarterly Review U.S. Mortgage Insurance : Net operating income of $61 million surged 48.8% year over year. The loss ratio for the quarter improved 1100 basis points (bps) year over year to 28%. Continued decline and improved performance in delinquencies during the 2005-2008 book years led to the improvement. Canada Mortgage Insurance : Net operating income was $39 million, down 5.4% year over year. The loss ratio in the quarter improved 500 bps year over year to 24%, mainly due to an increase in new delinquencies, net of cures. Australia Mortgage Insurance : Net operating income of $14 million plunged 36.4% year over year. Loss ratio in the quarter was 30%, up 1300 bps year over year. This was attributable to continued unfavorable experience from the commodity dependent regions of Queensland and Western Australia. U.S. Life Insurance : Net operating loss of $154 million was wider than net operating loss of $135 million in the prior-year quarter. The underperformance stemmed from the net operating loss incurred by Long Term Care Insurance. Runoff : Net operating income of $6 million compared favorably with the net operating loss of $4 million in the year-ago quarter. Corporate And Other: Net operating loss of $103 million was significantly wider than the year-ago loss of $58 million. Financial Update Genworth exited the quarter with cash, cash equivalents and invested assets of $75 billion, down about 1% from year-end 2015. Long-term borrowings of Genworth totaled $4.2 billion as of Dec 31, 2016, down approximately 8.2% from year-end 2015. Book value per share as of Dec 31, 2016 was $25.37, down 1.5% from the 2015-end level. Business Update In Oct 2016, Genworth Financial inked a definitive agreement with China Oceanwide Holdings Group Co., Ltd. to be acquired by the latter for $2.7 billion or $5.43 per share in cash. The transaction will be executed via Asia Pacific Global Capital Co. Ltd., one of China Oceanwide's investment platforms. The deal is expected to culminate by the middle of 2017 upon fulfillment of closing conditions. Zacks Rank Genworth presently carries a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). You can see the complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here . Genworth Financial Inc Price, Consensus and EPS Surprise Genworth Financial Inc Price, Consensus and EPS Surprise | Genworth Financial Inc Quote Performance of Other Insurers Among the other players from the same space that have reported their fourth-quarter earnings so far, the bottom line at Progressive Corp. PGR , The Travelers Companies Inc. TRV and RLI Corp. RLI beat the Zacks Consensus Estimate. Just Released - Driverless Cars: Your Roadmap to Mega-Profits Today In this latest Special Report, Zacks' Aggressive Growth Strategist Brian Bolan explores a full-blown technological breakthrough in the making - autonomous cars. He also spotlights 8 stocks with tremendous gain potential to feed off this phenomenon. Click to see the stocks right now Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report Genworth Financial Inc (GNW): Get Free Report RLI Corp. (RLI): Get Free Report The Travelers Companies, Inc. (TRV): Get Free Report Progressive Corporation (The) (PGR): Get Free Report To read this article on Zacks.com click here. The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.