{{contrib_block.display_author.name}} Voice Loren Thompson , {{contrib_block.display_author.type}} Contributor {{contrib_block.display_author.type}} Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile '"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. The last time Congress completed work on a federal budget before the new fiscal year began, my beloved twins (Matthew and Ariel) hadn't been born. They're sophomores in college now. That's right -- Congress hasn't approved a complete federal budget in time for the new fiscal year even once in the last 20 years. So at the moment the government is operating under what's called a continuing resolution, meaning last year's funding levels and priorities have been carried over into the new year. That wouldn't be a problem if this were the Ottoman Empire circa 1900, because nothing much changed from year to year back then anyway. In America, though, things are changing constantly. If the budget doesn't change with them, the backlog of unaddressed business begins to pile up. Road repairs. Medical research. Military training. When Congress fails to fund military programs adequately or predictably, the human consequences can be devastating. (U.S. Army photo by Sgt. John Ortiz/Wikimedia) The way continuing resolutions work, federal agencies can't increase the funding of any program above the prior year's level. And if an agency was planning to begin a new program that wasn't funded in the previous year, it has to wait until the CR is replaced with a real budget funding the program. The plan right now is to replace the current continuing resolution with a budget for the remainder of the fiscal year in late April -- by which time the year will be more than half over (it began October 1). But some observers think Congress will go the entire year without passing a real budget and just extend the CR, given the partisan turmoil on Capitol Hill. That would have devastating consequences for the military, because it is already on the ragged edge in terms of readiness and gradually losing its warfighting advantages over potential adversaries. In fact, when you combine the fiscal uncertainties of doing a CR each year with budget caps that Congress legislated in 2011, the consequences could be literally fatal. That's what the Army's vice-chief of staff, General Daniel Allyn, told Congress last week. He said the Army needs sustained, long-term, and predictable funding, which is the opposite of what it has been getting from Capitol Hill. Budget caps force it to underfund training, maintenance and investment, while the continuing resolutions prevent it from using what money it has efficiently.