Published: Feb 6, 2017 4:26 p.m. ET Group of 100 tech CEOs set to fight Trump on immigration restrictions By Wall Street stocks closed lower on Monday as the S P 500 snapped a three-day winning streak after mixed earnings. The Dow Jones Industrial Average DJIA, -0.33%  fell 19.04 points to end at 20,052.42 as gains for United Technologies Corp. UTX, -0.17%  were offset by losses for Verizon Communications Inc. VZ, -0.30%  shares. The S P 500 SPX, -0.26%  shed 4.86 points, or 0.2%, to close at 2,292.56, with energy and telecommunications sectors leading the losses. The Nasdaq Composite COMP, -0.06%  slipped 3.21 points to finish at 5,663.55. “Today’s trading resembles a pause after a rally, since there isn’t big news that would drive the market either way,” said Diane Jaffee, senior portfolio manager at TCW. “But the odds of policy mistakes coming from the White House administration have risen,” Jaffee said. Over the past two weeks, investors have shown to be jittery after controversial policy announcements, such as travel ban applying to people from seven predominantly Muslim countries. Jaffee said that financial stocks, which have helped propel the Dow and the S P 500 higher, could continue to benefit from the scaling back of the Dodd-Frank regulations. “The big gains in financials are not overdone if you consider that they did nothing for months up until the election. They are still inexpensive compared to the market and have room to grow as their earnings increase,” Jaffee said. Read: President Trump looms large over stocks despite deluge of earnings There were no top-tier economic data scheduled for Monday. “It is really quiet,” said Michael Antonelli, equity sales trader at Robert W. Baird Co. “On Friday we sat just shy of new all time highs and I think today is simple profit-taking.” The Dow reclaimed the 20,000-mark at the end of last week after robust January nonfarm-payrolls figures and strong bank shares on news that the Trump administration would roll back Dodd-Frank regulations . Read: Three bank stocks to benefit from weaker regulations under Trump Stock movers: Hasbro Inc. HAS, +0.06%  shares surged 14% after reporting profit and sales above expectations . Shares of Tiffany Co. TIF, +2.44%  fell 2.5% after the high-end jewelry retailer said over the weekend that Chief Executive Frederic Cumenal stepped down, effective immediately, after 22 months in the role. Shares of Tyson Foods TSN, +0.28%  fell 3.5% after the company’s better-than-expected earnings were overshadowed by news of subpoena by the Securities and Exchange Commission. A group of nearly 100 major technology companies, including Apple Inc. AAPL, -0.02% Alphabet Inc.’s Google GOOGL, +0.29% Facebook Inc. FB, -0.31% and Microsoft Corp. MSFT, -0.14% are joining forces to fight Trump’s immigration restrictions . The companies filed a joint amicus brief in court, saying that Trump’s order violates the Constitution. On Friday, U.S. District Judge James Robart of Seattle granted a temporary ban on the controversial immigration order, and a federal appeals court on Sunday declined to quickly reinstate the ban . A federal appeals court rejected a Justice Department request to reinstate President Donald Trump s executive order on immigration and refugees. Other markets: European stocks SXXP, -0.03%  declined across the board, while in Asia ADOW, -0.31% stocks closed mostly higher . The dollar DXY, +0.32% was mostly flat and gold prices GCJ7, -0.17%  climbed, while oil prices CLH7, -0.52% slid. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note TMUBMUSD10Y, -1.34%  fell 5 basis points to 2.41%. --Barbara Kollmeyer contributed to this report. Join the conversation Copyright 2017 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved. By using this site you agree to the Terms of Service , Privacy Policy , and Cookie Policy . Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use . Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data delayed per exchange requirements. S P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones Company, Inc. All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time.