BREAKING:  Dow, S P 500 Stay Down; Nasdaq Inches Into Positive Ground Need to register? Current subscribers register here . Until President Trump realizes his promised tax cuts and threatened border taxes, companies including steel maker Nucor and automaker GM are following through on plans to move some production to Mexico. (AP) Steel maker Nucor ( NUE ) is tentatively moving forward with plans for an automotive steel plant in Mexico as it awaits clarity on President Trump's promised tax cuts and threatened border taxes. "We still expect it to be in Mexico, but we'll watch that," Nucor CEO John Ferriola told analysts on Jan. 30 about the $270 million plant that his firm is scheduled to break ground on this summer with its joint-venture partner, Japanese steel maker JFE Holding. "When and if something changes and we have some definitive direction that says that's not the place to put it, we do have options and we will work and will follow with one of those options." Similarly, BMW and Toyota ( TM ) have said they'll follow through on plans for new factories in Mexico, and General Motors ( GM ) has said it won't alter its production plans despite getting heat from a Trump tweet over some of its Cruze hatchbacks being built south of the border. ( Ford Motor ( F ) did cancel plans to build a Mexico plant, but that appears to reflect declining U.S. demand for small cars rather than Ford bending to Trump's will.) Chipmaker CTS Corp. ( CTS ) told analysts on Tuesday that it is on track to shift production from Elkhart, Ind., where about 230 workers are employed, to other "best cost" locations outside the U.S. by 2018. Other companies sticking to their plans include Caterpillar ( CAT ), which is shifting some jobs from Joliet, Ill., to Mexico, and Rexnord ( RXN ), which is closing an Indiana ball-bearings facility that employs 350 and shifting production to Mexico, according to a Wall Street Journal report . Trump, with the help of some tax incentives from Indiana, did manage to convince United Technologies ( UTX ) to keep open a Carrier air-conditioning plant slated for closure, saving about 800 of nearly 2,000 jobs that appeared to be headed to Mexico. But concerns over jeopardizing valuable defense contracts may have made United Tech especially open to a face-saving deal. The broader point is that Trump's plans to grow U.S. manufacturing employment look unlikely to gain traction while so much uncertainty remains about the tax carrots and sticks he wants to use to shift corporate incentives. The bully pulpit, by itself, can't accomplish much. IBD'S TAKE:  The controversial GOP border-tax plan may be the only way President Trump can deliver a big corporate tax cut . It's not surprising that companies would move ahead with plans hatched prior to Trump's election. Yet there's risk that a drawn-out debate over tax reform, including a debate over the House proposal for a 20% border tax, could freeze future investment plans as companies wait for clarity. If questions grow over whether Trump can deliver on his promised corporate tax cut, the burst of economic enthusiasm now showing up in the Institute of Supply Management gauge of factory activity and other sentiment gauges could turn into a letdown. Even as the Dow Jones industrial average is holding above 20,000, the rise in gold prices to nearly a three-month high and the drop in the 10-year Treasury yield close to a two-month low are signs that big investors are hedging their bets over what Trump will be able to accomplish. RELATED: Why Tax Reform Could End In Tears For Trump And GOP Treasury Might Write Checks To Boeing Under GOP Tax Reform Ford is rethinking its autonomous car strategy after noticing its engineers dozed during testing. (Ford) 10:41 AM ET As Ford Motor has been developing self-driving cars, engineers monitoring the robot rides are dozing off, forcing the company to... 10:41 AM ET As Ford Motor has been developing self-driving cars, engineers monitoring... The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association recommends that bond markets shutter on Monday as well. (AP) FANG CEOs Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, Reed Hastings and Larry Page. (AP) Find the broker that's right for you with IBD's annual list of the Best Online Brokers. Get 4 free weeks of the IBD Digital edition plus access to IBD s exclusive market analysis, proprietary stock ratings and interactive tools. Stay on top of the market with IBD s exclusive videos. You will find the latest news, market analysis, and education to help you become a more successful investor. Get the most out of IBD s products and features by learning the CAN SLIM Investing System and staying in sync with the market trend. Notice: Information contained herein is not and should not be construed as an offer, solicitation, or recommendation to buy or sell securities. The information has been obtained from sources we believe to be reliable; however no guarantee is made or implied with respect to its accuracy, timeliness, or completeness. Authors may own the stocks they discuss. The information and content are subject to change without notice. *Real-time prices by Bats®. Volume delayed. Real-time quote and/or trade prices are not sourced from all markets. © 2000-2017 Investor's Business Daily, Inc. All rights reserved