Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! Boeing Company ( BA ) will begin trading ex-dividend on February 08, 2017. A cash dividend payment of $1.42 per share is scheduled to be paid on March 03, 2017. Shareholders who purchased BA prior to the ex-dividend date are eligible for the cash dividend payment. This represents an 30.28% increase over prior dividend payment. The previous trading day's last sale of BA was $163.98, representing a -3.54% decrease from the 52 week high of $170 and a 60.61% increase over the 52 week low of $102.10. BA is a part of the Capital Goods sector, which includes companies such as United Technologies Corporation ( UTX ) and Textron Inc. ( TXT ). BA's current earnings per share, an indicator of a company's profitability, is $7.65. Zacks Investment Research reports BA's forecasted earnings growth in 2017 as 20.28%, compared to an industry average of -1.2%. For more information on the declaration, record and payment dates, visit the BA Dividend History page. Our Dividend Calendar has the full list of stocks that have an ex-dividend today. Interested in gaining exposure to BA through an Exchange Traded Fund [ETF]? The following ETF(s) have BA as a top-10 holding: iShares U.S. Aerospace Defense ETF ( ITA ) Vanguard Industrials ETF - DNQ ( VIS ) iShares U.S. Industrials ETF ( IYJ ) iShares Edge MSCI USA Quality Factor ETF ( QUAL ). The top-performing ETF of this group is ITA with an increase of 14.01% over the last 100 days. It also has the highest percent weighting of BA at 9.2%. The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.