Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! Looking at the universe of stocks we cover at Dividend Channel , on 2/15/17, Visa Inc (Symbol: V), United Technologies Corp (Symbol: UTX), and Emerson Electric Co. (Symbol: EMR) will all trade ex-dividend for their respective upcoming dividends. Visa Inc will pay its quarterly dividend of $0.165 on 3/7/17, United Technologies Corp will pay its quarterly dividend of $0.66 on 3/10/17, and Emerson Electric Co. will pay its quarterly dividend of $0.48 on 3/10/17. As a percentage of V's recent stock price of $86.08, this dividend works out to approximately 0.19%, so look for shares of Visa Inc to trade 0.19% lower - all else being equal - when V shares open for trading on 2/15/17. Similarly, investors should look for UTX to open 0.59% lower in price and for EMR to open 0.75% lower, all else being equal. Below are dividend history charts for V, UTX, and EMR, showing historical dividends prior to the most recent ones declared. Visa Inc (Symbol: V) : makeArticleAd(); United Technologies Corp (Symbol: UTX) : Emerson Electric Co. (Symbol: EMR) : In general, dividends are not always predictable, following the ups and downs of company profits over time. Therefore, a good first due diligence step in forming an expectation of annual yield going forward, is looking at the history above, for a sense of stability over time. This can help in judging whether the most recent dividends from these companies are likely to continue. If they do continue, the current estimated yields on annualized basis would be 0.77% for Visa Inc, 2.36% for United Technologies Corp, and 3.00% for Emerson Electric Co.. In Monday trading, Visa Inc shares are currently up about 0.2%, United Technologies Corp shares are up about 0.7%, and Emerson Electric Co. shares are up about 1% on the day. Click here to learn which 25 S.A.F.E. dividend stocks should be on your radar screen » The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.