CHARLOTTE, N.C., Feb. 7, 2017 /PRNewswire/ -- An unrelenting commitment to on-time delivery of high-quality components has earned UTC Aerospace Systems' facility in Foley, Alabama, the distinction of being named one of IndustryWeek magazine's 2016 Best Plants in North America. The facility is part of the company's Aerostructures business. UTC Aerospace Systems is a unit of United Technologies Corp. ( UTX ). "We're extremely proud of the dedicated workforce in Foley," said Aerostructures President Marc Duvall. "Their expertise and outstanding ongoing performance have made Foley a site to be benchmarked. This award shows the world what we've known for years—the people in our Foley location are a highly engaged team with a 'quality-first' attitude who thrive on delighting our customers as we strive to make their aircraft more intelligent, more electric and more integrated." As part of Aerostructures' original equipment (OE) business, the Foley site employs about 600 people who assemble nacelle components and oversee the integration of propulsion systems for the Airbus A320neo platform. In addition, the site will provide support for other new airplane platforms including the Bombardier C Series i , the Embraer E2 and the Mitsubishi Regional Jet. The OE manufacturing facility currently has a footprint of about 230,000 square feet. Later this year, an 80,000-square-foot expansion currently under construction will open, primarily to house engine integration activities. The OE facility is co-located with the Alabama Service Center—a 210,000-square-foot maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) facility for nacelle systems that serves customers in the Americas, and employs about 200 people. Together, the two businesses are Baldwin County's largest manufacturing employer. About the IndustryWee k Best Plants Awards Competition Established in 1990, the IndustryWeek Best Plants Awards program annually recognizes plants, located in North America, that are on the leading edge of efforts to increase competitiveness, enhance customer satisfaction and create stimulating and rewarding work environments. Its further goal is to encourage other manufacturing managers and work teams to emulate the honorees by adopting world-class practices, technologies and improvement strategies. For additional information, visit www.industryweek.com . About UTC Aerospace Systems UTC Aerospace Systems designs, manufactures and services integrated systems and components for the aerospace and defense industries. UTC Aerospace Systems supports a global customer base with significant worldwide manufacturing and customer service facilities. Follow the company on Twitter: @utcaerosystems About United Technologies Corporation United Technologies Corp., based in Farmington, Connecticut, provides high-technology systems and services to the building and aerospace industries. To learn more about UTC, visit the website at www.utc.com or follow the company on Twitter: @UTC i C Series is a trademark of Bombardier Inc. or its subsidiaries. To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/delivering-customer-delight-earns-utc-aerospace-systems-industryweeks-best-plants-award-for-foley-ala-facility-300403485.html span.p_span{font-size:8pt !important;font-family:"Arial" !important;color:black !important;} a.p_a{color:blue !important;} li.p_li{font-size:8pt !important;font-family:"Arial" !important;color:black !important;} p.p_p{font-size:0.62em !important;font-family:"Arial" !important;color:black !important;margin:0in !important;} ;} p.c1 {font-weight: bold !important;} ;} Dont-Tase-Me-Bro: Why is Trump more angry with the leaks than the content of the leaks?? 2.7k