Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! Consistently, one of the more popular stocks people enter into their stock options watchlist at Stock Options Channel is United Technologies Corp (Symbol: UTX). So this week we highlight one interesting put contract, and one interesting call contract, from the March expiration for UTX. The put contract our YieldBoost algorithm identified as particularly interesting, is at the $109 strike, which has a bid at the time of this writing of $1.26. Collecting that bid as the premium represents a 1.2% return against the $109 commitment, or a 9.2% annualized rate of return (at Stock Options Channel we call this the YieldBoost ). Selling a put does not give an investor access to UTX's upside potential the way owning shares would, because the put seller only ends up owning shares in the scenario where the contract is exercised. So unless United Technologies Corp sees its shares fall 2.4% and the contract is exercised (resulting in a cost basis of $107.74 per share before broker commissions, subtracting the $1.26 from $109), the only upside to the put seller is from collecting that premium for the 9.2% annualized rate of return. makeArticleAd(); Interestingly, that annualized 9.2% figure actually exceeds the 2.4% annualized dividend paid by United Technologies Corp by 6.8%, based on the current share price of $111.75. And yet, if an investor was to buy the stock at the going market price in order to collect the dividend, there is greater downside because the stock would have to lose 2.4% to reach the $109 strike price. Always important when discussing dividends is the fact that, in general, dividend amounts are not always predictable and tend to follow the ups and downs of profitability at each company. In the case of United Technologies Corp, looking at the dividend history chart for UTX below can help in judging whether the most recent dividend is likely to continue, and in turn whether it is a reasonable expectation to expect a 2.4% annualized dividend yield. Turning to the other side of the option chain, we highlight one call contract of particular interest for the March expiration, for shareholders of United Technologies Corp (Symbol: UTX) looking to boost their income beyond the stock's 2.4% annualized dividend yield. Selling the covered call at the $112 strike and collecting the premium based on the $1.65 bid, annualizes to an additional 11.7% rate of return against the current stock price (this is what we at Stock Options Channel refer to as the YieldBoost ), for a total of 14.1% annualized rate in the scenario where the stock is not called away. Any upside above $112 would be lost if the stock rises there and is called away, but UTX shares would have to advance 0.3% from current levels for that to happen, meaning that in the scenario where the stock is called, the shareholder has earned a 1.8% return from this trading level, in addition to any dividends collected before the stock was called. The chart below shows the trailing twelve month trading history for United Technologies Corp, highlighting in green where the $109 strike is located relative to that history, and highlighting the $112 strike in red: The chart above, and the stock's historical volatility, can be a helpful guide in combination with fundamental analysis to judge whether selling the March put or call options highlighted in this article deliver a rate of return that represents good reward for the risks. We calculate the trailing twelve month volatility for United Technologies Corp (considering the last 251 trading day UTX historical stock prices using closing values, as well as today's price of $111.75) to be 16%. Top YieldBoost UTX Calls » The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.