Shares of AT T ( T ) today rose 13 cents to $41.25, after the company announced late in the afternoon that it will offer unlimited data to post-paid wireless customers for $100 per month, for $180 for four lines. Technically, this is AT T “expanding” its unlimited service; the company had been offering an unlimited data plan as a bundle for those customers who use its video services. But Wells Fargo  analyst  Jennifer Fritzsche points out this evening that T was the last to not offer unlimited as a stand-alone option for wireless customers, after Verizon Communications ( VZ ) announced a plan last weekend . (Those of us who have been AT T customers, including yours truly, can remember holding onto our existing unlimited plans for years since it was formally discontinued.) Fritzsche, who has an Outperform rating on AT T shares, writes that Blinking moment has indeed occurred! It’s a big sign of how things have changed in the business that AT T is abandoning its hold-out status on pricing: AT T clearly is jumping into the unlimited game in a bigger way. T was the last of the Big 4 wireless carrier to not offer an unlimited wireless data plan standalone, though it did offer unlimited when bundled with a video product prior. Today s news changes that. T made a very purposeful move to move away from standalone unlimited wireless plans in recent years. In fact, the last time it offered a standalone wireless plan was in 2010. We believe this move was more reactionary to VZ s move Sunday given that it is a clear premium to both TMUS and S. That said, this move highlights the competitive state of the industry as T in recent years had been the one carrier most to toe the line in pricing. Error message That is an outrageous rate $1200 a year. From transparency I do own AT T stock.Also I do not own a smart phone as rates are to expensive, retired and on a fixed income. Tech Trader Daily is a blog on technology investing written by Barron’s veteran Tiernan Ray. The blog provides news, analysis and original reporting on events important to investors in software, hardware, the Internet, telecommunications and related fields. Comments and tips can be sent to: techtraderdaily@barrons.com . Follow @barronstechblog !function(d,s,id){var js,fjs=d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];if(!d.getElementById(id)){js=d.createElement(s);js.id=id;js.src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js";fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js,fjs);}}(document,"script","twitter-wjs"); Your email has been sent. An error has occured and your email has not been sent. Please try again .