(Sprint CEO Marcelo Claure.Reuters/Dave Kaup) Sprint on Thursday announced that, starting February 17, its unlimited data plan will offer high-definition video streaming and 10 GB of LTE mobile-hotspot data a month for new subscribers. The upgrades come just days after T-Mobile updated its “One” unlimited plan to include the same features, which itself came in response to Verizon’s re-entry into the unlimited plan market earlier in the week. AT T announced plans to make its unlimited plan more widely available on Thursday as well. Sprint currently caps all video streams on its unlimited plan at a less-than-HD resolution of 480p by default. Subscribers who want HD video streaming on an unlimited plan have to pay for a separate $75-a-month offering . The carrier also limits mobile-hotspot usage — which allows a phone to be used as a portable WiFi router — to 5 GB of LTE data a month on the default unlimited plan, and 3 GB of LTE data a month on the $75 plan. Now, Sprint says new subscribers will be able stream video up to a sharper 1080p resolution on the default plan. Gaming and music streams, which were also throttled under the old plan, will be raised from a slow 2 Mbps to 8 Mbps, and from 500 Kbps to 1.5 Mbps, respectively. (Mike Blake/Reuters) As with before, subscribers that exceed the designated amount of LTE mobile-hotspot data in a given month will have that throttled to 2G speeds for the rest of the pay period. Both T-Mobile and Verizon knock subscribers down to faster 3G speeds once they go past that 10GB-a-month allotment. AT T does not include mobile-hotspot data as part of its unlimited plan at all. Notably, Sprint says that the updates only apply to new subscribers and those who purchased five lines of service for $90 a month as part of a price promotion that the carrier rolled out earlier this month. Current Sprint unlimited plan subscribers who do not have the five lines for $90 plan will be stuck with the same conditions as before. That promotion, as a reminder, allows new customers to buy one line on its unlimited plan for $50 a month, and anywhere from two to five lines for $90 a month. Those rates will stay in place for new customers here, but they'll still only last until March 31, 2018. At that point, Sprint will raise prices back to their normal rates, where one line costs $60 a month, two lines cost $100 a month, and every line beyond that costs an additional $30 a month. To get any of these prices, though, you’ll have to enroll in auto-pay billing — otherwise, Sprint charges another $5 a month. (T-Mobile US CEO John Legere.Steve Marcus/Reuters) That's still less than T-Mobile One (which starts at $70 a month for one line) Verizon’s unlimited plan ($80 a month), or AT T's unlimited plan ($100 a month), but it notably doesn’t include monthly taxes and fees, which raise the final cost up somewhat. Verizon and AT T do not include those fees in their advertised rates, either, but T-Mobile does. As with all of its peers, Sprint’s unlimited plan isn’t technically "unlimited." The carrier says it may slow certain subscribers’ speeds in areas of congestion once they use more than 23 GB of LTE data in a given month. T-Mobile and Verizon give similar warnings — for T-Mobile, it’s 28 GB, for Verizon and AT T, it’s 22 GB. The updates bring Sprint closer to parity with Verizon and T-Mobile on a feature-by-feature basis as it offers its plan at a lower price. But its network is still widely seen as lacking compared to its peers. A recent study from mobile research firm OpenSignal, for instance, found it to be firmly in fourth place in terms of overall LTE coverage and speeds. NOW WATCH: Here's What The 'Can You Hear Me Now?' Guy Is Doing Today More From Business Insider Cmdr: It’s time to get Russia out of Americas White House!
Trump and ALL of his bunch have to go! 484 AT T on Thursday announced the return of its unlimited data plan that will launch Feb. 17. Now, all four major US carriers offer an unlimited data plan, as customers demand more data for streaming video. The plan will be available to all consumer and business postpaid AT T wireless customers. AT T Unlimited Plan will include unlimited talk, text, and data on four lines for $180. AT T said after 22GB of data usage, it may slow speeds during periods of network congestion, which is becoming pretty standard with these type of plans. AT T is hitting back at the unlimited data plans announced by Verizon, Sprint, and T-Mobile earlier this week. ZDNet compared each of these unlimited plans and found With everything that Republicans want to do — repeal Obamacare, overhaul the tax code — it might seem odd that one of Congress’ very first acts would be to kill an obscure Obama-era regulation that restricts coal companies from dumping mining waste into streams and waterways. In early February, the House and Senate voted to repeal the so-called “stream protection rule” — using a regulation-killing tool known as the Congressional Review Act. On Thursday, President Trump signed the bill, which means the stream protection rule is now dead. U.S. officials have initiated deportation proceedings against a Mexican immigrant with a work permit who was arrested near Seattle last week, alleging he has gang ties, according to a court filing from the Justice Department on Thursday. Daniel Ramirez Medina, 23, was taken into custody last week at his father s home near Seattle by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officers, according to a lawsuit he filed challenging his detention. The lawsuit said he was brought to the United States illegally as a child and given a work permit during the administration of former President Barack Obama. Jim Cramer warns investors of trading off of headlines instead of doing homework. Theranos  saga came into the spotlight in October 2015 after The Wall Street Journal published an investigation that questioned the accuracy of Theranos blood test. In 2016, Theranos northern California location was shut down, and CEO Elizabeth Holmes was barred for two years from running a clinical lab. Theranos has since appealed. Between 20 and 30 million people will lose their health insurance if Obamacare—aka the Affordable Care Act—is repealed by Congressional Republicans with no replacement plan. For example, in Florida’s 12th Congressional District, Gaba estimates 36,413 people would lose insurance under a full repeal. What a difference a week makes for Bill Ackman. After bleeding money for the past two years in a row, Ackman’s Pershing Square hedge fund is not only in the black for 2017, it’s actually beating the market for the first time in a very long while. Investors could blame a substantial share of their losses on a 95% decline in the stock price of Valeant Pharmaceuticals , which cost Ackman more than $3 billion of his massive $4 billion investment in the company. Finding a company with a long track record of consistent dividend payments is only part of the winning formula for investing in dividend stocks. It s an opportune time to target dividend growers, according to Heidi Richardson, an investment strategist for BlackRock. Identify reliable dividend stocks by concentrating on the Dividend Aristocrats, 50 companies in Standard Poor s 500-stock index that have hiked their dividends every year for at least 25 consecutive years. Delta is bringing free meals back to economy class on some long U.S. flights after dropping them years ago to save money. Delta said Thursday it will start serving meals to all passengers on 12 long-haul routes over the next several weeks. Airlines took away free sandwiches and similar fare after two industry downturns in the decade of the 2000s. Shares of Pfizer  (PFE)  gained over 2% on Wednesday, extending the rally off the late February low to 7.75%. This impressive move has lifted the stock back to within striking distance of a major resistance area. If this week s rally can extend past the January high investors could see a powerful breakout. Since the September lows, the company has been bouncing around in a narrowing range. This consolidation phase marked a significant low in early November as the election neared. The stock received quite a jolt immediately after the Trump victory but the drug concern was unable to put any distance on its 200-day moving average. The steep pullback that followed drove the stock down to within pennies Yahoo is warning users of potentially malicious activity on their accounts between 2015 and 2016, the latest development in the internet company s investigation of a mega-breach that exposed 1 billion users data several years ago. Yahoo confirmed Wednesday that it was notifying users that their accounts had potentially been compromised but declined to say how many people were affected. In a statement, Yahoo tied some of the potential compromises to what it has described as the state-sponsored actor responsible for the theft of private data from more than 1 billion user accounts in 2013 and 2014. Then reality sets in: Retirement can be kind of a drag. While traditional retirement planning covers financial essentials — expected returns, inflation, withdrawal rates, portfolio rebalancing, tax planning — most plans won t prepare you for the emotional challenges of post-work life. I ve had a number of clients who retire and feel a little adrift at sea, and it happens to people regardless of means, says Lisa Kirchenbauer, president of Omega Wealth Management in Arlington, Virginia. The supposed stability being portrayed in China s recent economic reports doesn t look so rosy in the scope of the big picture. China bought U.S. government bonds in December for the first time since May, the Treasury reported Wednesday. The faster we get to $2.5 trillion [in total reserves], the quicker the sense of eventual disarray will be, Junheng Li, founder of China-focused equity research firm JL Warren Capital, said in an email. (Miley Cyrus throws money in the air as she performs at the opening night of her Bangerz Tour in Australia at Rod Laver Arena on October 10, 2014 in Melbourne, Australia.Scott Barbour/Getty Images) The US dollar has been getting stronger, but at what Feb.16 -- A recap of President Donald Trump s news conference in Washington. The Internal Revenue Service is making a small change to how they evaluate one line of a tax document this year. Essentially, line 61 on the IRS 1040 tax form asks the filer whether they have health insurance, which is mandated by the ACA. In response to criticism that the IRS was not properly monitoring mortgage interest deductions, Congress was asked to require lenders to report more information about the loans. In 2015 Congress passed the new reporting rules, and they went into effect for tax year 2016. Homeowners will see the result this year in a newly designed Form 1098, which is used to report mortgage interest. The new form will include the mortgage origination date, the balance at the end of last year and the address of the property securing the loan, as well as other information useful to the IRS. With this new wealth of information, it’s expected that the IRS could direct more attention and audit resources toward checking A scuttled rule to protect waterways from coal mining pollution would have caused relatively few layoffs within the industry and created nearly as many new jobs, according to a government report. President Donald Trump signed a measure on Thursday to cancel the Stream Protection Rule. The rule, passed under President Barack Obama , would have prohibited surface mining within 100 feet of streams and tightened requirements for conducting environmental studies and cleaning up mines. Warren Buffett just astounded the investment world by welcoming into his exclusive club of favored stocks. According to most analysts and pundits, Buffett’s enormous bet on Apple makes perfect sense. Apple , they argue, is the epitome of what he covets, a deep value stock offering strong earnings power at a bargain price. An attorney representing former Fox News host Andrea Tantaros in her suit against the network and its former chieftan Roger Ailes told a New York court on Wednesday that Fox was being investigated by federal authorities. Judd Burstein said at a court hearing that he “was told by the U.S. Attorney’s office there is an ongoing criminal investigation, relating to these allegations, all of these allegations,” according to the New York Daily News. Tantaros filed a sexual harassment suit against Ailes and Fox in August. Shares of Cisco Systems (CSCO) initially fell in after-hours trade when the company reported second-quarter results, but then hit rarely charted highs on Thursday once investors realized it was actually a strong quarter. It was clear to Mad Money host Jim Cramer that the quarter was initially misunderstood. Cisco did deliver a top and bottom line beat, but sales were down 2 percent year over year. Getting older does have its perks, one of which is qualifying for Medicare, the federally sponsored health-insurance program. For starters, there are two basic parts of Medicare: Part A and Part B . While many seniors go this route, a growing number are choosing Medicare Advantage plans, with over 17 million enrolling in them last year. OPEC is finding itself backed into a corner: the group, it appears, is prepared to extend the oil production cut agreement that is set to expire at the end of June and also increase the cuts, if inventories fail to drop to a specified level, sources from the group told Reuters. The agreement, which also involves 11 non-OPEC producers, including Russia, Mexico, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, and several smaller producers, envisaged taking off around 1.8 million barrels from the global daily supply. Reliable inventory data from all the countries taking part in the agreement is not coming soon and will likely still not be available when OPEC meets in May to discuss progress. The Trump administration issued its first Obamacare regulation early Wednesday morning. The 71-page document essentially outlines the rules that insurers need to play by if they want to sell coverage on the marketplaces. The rule suggests that the Trump administration wants to keep the marketplaces running but is also all right with enrollment shrinking in 2018. Social Security provides key benefits to millions of retirees, many of whom wouldn t manage to pay their bills without it. But what you may not realize is that the average recipient today gets just $1,360 in monthly benefits -- hardly enough to cover even a modest lifestyle. If you re looking to get more money out of Social Security, here are a few things you can do to make that happen. 1. Wait until you turn 70 to file for benefits Your Social Security payments are mainly determined by how much you earned during your top working years. Once you reach your full retirement age, you ll be eligible to collect your monthly payments in full. If you were born between 1943 and 1954, your full retirement