Verizon Communications Inc. ( VZ ) and Yahoo Inc. ( YHOO ) are close to reaching a revised sale agreement that would lower the price Verizon pays by roughly $300 million. According to multiple media reports, including The Wall Street Journal, people familiar with the matter said that in addition to paying around $300 million less for Yahoo’s core internet assets, the two could end up sharing any liabilities that result from the two Yahoo data breaches that potentially impacted 1.5 billion user accounts. Yahoo disclosed the data breaches after it inked its $4.85 billion deal. The timing of the breaches is now the subject of a Securities and Exchange Commission inquiry. Verizon and Yahoo were both silent on media reports about the new deal terms. (See also: Yahoo Confirms Massive Data Breach .) If the two sides are able to come to an agreement over a revised deal within a week, it would enable the transaction to be completed in April, closing before Verizon’s inquiry into the breaches is finished, reported the WSJ. Verizon is keen on closing the deal on Yahoo, which, when combined with AOL, is expected to make the telecom giant a bigger competitor in the online advertising market. The WSJ noted that the SEC investigation about when Yahoo knew about the breaches, and when it disclosed them to investors, could throw a wrench in the time frame for the deal to close. Verizon is reportedly asking for the discount in the offer price not only because the hacks hurt Yahoo’s reputation but also because Verizon thinks it will be tough to integrate Yahoo into AOL because its systems have been compromised. If Verizon does agree to a revised deal, it will give up the right to pursue a lawsuit against Yahoo, noted the WSJ. Talks of new deal terms comes at the same time that Yahoo disclosed yet another data breach, which it said stemmed from a “state sponsored actor” attack. Hackers may have used forged cookies to get into user accounts without needing their passwords. In September, Yahoo disclosed the first of two massive breaches, revealing that a state-sponsored actor stole information from as many as 500 million user accounts. Yahoo said the stolen information may have included names, email addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth and hashed passwords. That breach happened in 2014. In December, Yahoo disclosed another larger breach of potentially 1 billion user accounts. In that case, the breach occurred in 2013. In late January, the WSJ reported the SEC launched an investigation into the timing of Yahoo’s disclosures of the breaches and whether or not Yahoo should have alerted investors sooner. The SEC requires companies to disclose breaches and cyberattacks as soon as the company determines the attacks could have an impact on its investors. Want to learn how to invest? Delivered twice a week, straight to your inbox.