BASKING RIDGE, N.J., Feb. 16, 2017 /PRNewswire/ -- Today nine middle and high school teams from across the country were awarded top prizes in the fifth annual Verizon Innovative Learning app challenge , a nationwide contest that encourages students to design mobile app concepts aimed at creating solutions for societal issues in their schools and communities. DePere Middle School students were named the winner of the national app challenge Fan Favorite award after its Pass It On app concept garnered 11,269 public votes. Additionally, eight student teams were named Best in Nation winners by a panel of experts for their inspiring mobile app concepts. The Best in Nation and Fan Favorite award winners will receive a total of $20,000 from the Verizon Foundation for their school, club or organization, tablets for each student team member, the opportunity to build their concepts into working apps with experts from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and an all-expenses-paid trip to the Technology Student Association (TSA) Conference in Orlando, Fla., in June 2017. Winning teams include: "The jobs that will define our future are in fields like science, technology, engineering and math (STEM), and it is the mission of Verizon Innovative Learning to ensure that all kids have an equal chance at taking advantage of these opportunities that can lead them to better economic futures," said Justina Nixon-Saintil, director of education programs for the Verizon Foundation. "The app challenge -- a hands-on learning experience that immerses students in a real world project, is one way we engage students and encourage them to think about how they can solve important problems with technology." In this year's app challenge, more than 1,800 middle and high school teams from across the country submitted mobile app concepts that were reviewed by a panel of judges assembled by TSA. The panel composed of education and industry experts selected eight of those concepts as national winners. In the Fan Favorite element of the competition, the Pass It On concept finished in first place with the most public votes – 11,269. Over the past four years, winners of the Verizon Innovative Learning app challenge have worked with experts from the MIT App Inventor team to build apps that help blind students navigate schools, track sports-related concussions, make learning easier for autistic classmates and more. Launched in 2012 in partnership with TSA and the MIT App Inventor team, the app challenge was one of the first programs created by Verizon Innovative Learning, the education initiative of the Verizon Foundation. Over the past five years, Verizon has committed $160 million to provide free technology, access and immersive, hands-on learning to students and teachers, particularly in underserved communities. As part of that initiative, this month Verizon announced #weneedmore, a national campaign to call attention to the millions of students across the U.S who lack technology in schools and exposure to careers in the science and technology sector. To learn more about #weneedmore and how to support bringing hands-on learning in science and technology to students across the country, visit weneedmore.com . About Verizon Innovative Learning Verizon Innovative Learning, the education initiative of the Verizon Foundation, brings technology and hands-on learning opportunities to middle and high school students in underserved schools and communities. We not only fund the programs, but we also create and administer them in partnership with leading nonprofits. We diligently measure the impact of our work and refine our programs to ensure we're making a difference. We've reached more than 220,000 students so far – and we're just getting started. For more information about Verizon's philanthropic work, visit www.verizon.com/about/responsibility ; or for regular updates, visit Facebook ( www.facebook.com/verizonfoundation ) and Twitter ( https://twitter.com/VZFoundation ). About the Technology Student Association (TSA) The Technology Student Association is a national organization devoted exclusively to the needs of students interested in science, technology, engineering and mathematics. Open to young people enrolled in or who have completed technology education courses, TSA's membership includes over 190,000 middle and high school students in 2,000 schools spanning 48 states. TSA partners with universities and other organizations to promote a variety of STEM competitions and opportunities for students and teachers. TSA is supported by educators, parents and business leaders who believe in the need or a technologically literate society. From engineers to business managers, our alumni credit TSA with a positive influence in their lives. Visit http://www.tsaweb.org for more information. Media contact: Jessica Thorpe 908.864.3691 jessica.thorpe@verizonwireless.com To view the original version on PR Newswire, visit: http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/depere-middle-school-in-depere-wi-named-winner-of-verizon-innovative-learning-app-challenge-national-fan-favorite-award-300408984.html span.p_span{font-size:8pt !important;font-family:"Arial" !important;color:black !important;} a.p_a{color:blue !important;} li.p_li{font-size:8pt !important;font-family:"Arial" !important;color:black !important;} p.p_p{font-size:0.62em !important;font-family:"Arial" !important;color:black !important;margin:0in !important;} ;} a.c2 {font-style: italic !important;} a.c1 {font-style: italic !important; text-decoration: underline;} ;} Dont-Tase-Me-Bro: Why is Trump more angry with the leaks than the content of the leaks?? 2.7k