Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! According to a recent FierceTelecom report, U.S. telecom behemoth AT T Inc. T has also come up with its unlimited data plan. This is likely to pose tough competition to Verizon Communications Inc.'s VZ recently launched unlimited 4G LTE data plan, called Verizon Unlimited. Verizon's unlimited plan is reportedly starting at $80 per month for unlimited data, talk and text for the first line, with a second line for $60 a month. To this end, AT T's unlimited plan is reportedly starting at $100 per month for unlimited data, talk and text for a single line. A family plan for four subscribers will cost $40 per line, or $180 monthly. Previously, this unlimited plan was available only for only DirecTV and U-Verse subscribers. But now, the plan will be made available to all consumer and business postpaid AT T wireless customers along with other customers. Reports also state that AT T's plan also allows unlimited calling from the U.S. to Canada and Mexico as well as unlimited texting to over 120 countries. Moreover, the inclusion of the 'Roam North America' feature will enable customers on this plan to talk, text and use data in Canada and Mexico without paying any extra roaming charges. However, the plan doesn't include hotspot data. Additional charges will be required to pay to tether one's phone connection to another device. Also, download speeds may slow down after the consumption of 22 GB data in a billing period during times of high network congestion. Video may get downgraded if users do not turn off the 'Stream Saver' feature. Winding Up Unlimited data plans or unlimited offerings are quite common in the wireless industry. U.S. wireless carriers opt for unlimited offerings as a weapon to lure customers from their rivals. Sprint Corp. S has also joined the unlimited data plan frenzy with its latest plan starting at $50 per month for a single line. T-Mobile US' TMUS unlimited plan starts at $70 per month for a single line, and two lines are available for $100 a month. These unlimited offerings, however, come with attractive promotional plans, advertisements and lucrative discounts, which will lead to further cash burn and losses for the company. We appreciate such a move on the part of AT T which seems more consumer friendly. We further expect the company to continueto provide better service to its customers with varied choices and conveniences and more value. Moreover, AT T's latest 5G plans coupled with the FiberTower buyout bode well. Over the past three months, AT T returned 10.24%, while the Zacks-categorized Wireless National industry gained 7.23%. AT T currently carries a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). You can see the complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here . Just Released - Driverless Cars: Your Roadmap to Mega-Profits Today In this latest Special Report, Zacks' Aggressive Growth Strategist Brian Bolan explores a full-blown technological breakthrough in the making - autonomous cars. He also spotlights 8 stocks with tremendous gain potential to feed off this phenomenon. Click to see the stocks right now Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report makeArticleAd(); AT T Inc. (T): Free Stock Analysis Report Sprint Corporation (S): Free Stock Analysis Report Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ): Free Stock Analysis Report T-Mobile US, Inc. (TMUS): Free Stock Analysis Report To read this article on Zacks.com click here. Zacks Investment Research The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.