Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! On Wednesday, retail giant Walmart WMT announced its acquisition of Moosejaw, a popular and fast-growing outdoor retailer, for $51 million. The all-cash deal closed on February 13. Moosejaw is headquartered in Madison Heights, Michigan, and is a fairly small retailer, with only 10 physical stores across the Midwest. Its online presence, however, is huge, and a popular choice for people who lead an active outdoor lifestyle. Moosejaw carries over 400 brands, including Patagonia, The North Face, Canada Goose, Marmot, Arc'teryx, and more. Walmart wants to continue to operate the Moosejaw website and stores as a standalone business, as well as a complementary one. With Walmart's firepower and commitment to online growth, Moosejaw.com will definitely benefit. Moosejaw's success comes at a time when other outdoor and athletic retailers have struggled. Eastern Mountain Sports filed for bankruptcy just last week, while Gander Mountain, a stalwart in hunting, fishing, and camping, is reportedly near a bankruptcy filing. Sports Authority was liquidated last year after no interested buyer came forward, and Cabela's CAB is in the process of being acquired by Bass Pro Shops. This is an obvious "in-your-face" move directed at Walmart's biggest rival, Amazon AMZN , especially as the e-commerce giant's presence in retail continues to escalate. It also comes on the heels of other acquisitions. Walmart recently scooped up online footwear store Shoebuy, and notably bought Jet.com for $3 billion last year. "Apparel and accessories is now the number one category for digital commerce, according to comScore, and we gain the experience of another well-established e-commerce player, this time in the active outdoor category," Walmart said in a statement . The acquisition gives Walmart access to Moosejaw's industry relationships with top apparel brands like Patagonia and The North Face, and it allows the company to carry select items from these brands through its other storefronts like Walmart.com, Jet.com, and ShoeBuy, if it wanted to. Currently, WMT is a #4 (Sell) on the Zacks Rank. Walmart is set to report its fourth-quarter fiscal 2017 financial results on February 21 before the bell. Stocks that Aren't in the News…Yet You are invited to download the full, up-to-the-minute list of 220 Zacks Rank #1 "Strong Buys" free of charge. Many of these companies are almost unheard of by the general public and just starting to get noticed by Wall Street. They have been pinpointed by the Zacks system that nearly tripled the market from 1988 through 2015, with a stellar average gain of +26% per year. See these high-potential stocks now Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report makeArticleAd(); Amazon.com, Inc. (AMZN): Free Stock Analysis Report Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (WMT): Free Stock Analysis Report Cabela's Inc (CAB): Free Stock Analysis Report To read this article on Zacks.com click here. Zacks Investment Research The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.