Should you buy these stocks too? What would it take to make you feel wealthy? Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more! We believe that Costco Wholesale Corporation COST prevails as one of the dominant retail wholesalers based on the breadth and quality of merchandise offered. The company's strategy to sell products at heavily discounted prices has helped it to remain on growth track as cash-strapped customers continue to reckon Costco as a viable option for low-cost necessities. A differentiated product range enables the company to provide an upscale shopping experience for its members, resulting in market share gains and higher sales per square foot. Moreover, Costco continues to maintain healthy membership renewal rate. Further, it is gradually expanding its eCommerce capabilities in the U.S., Canada, U.K., Mexico, Korea and Taiwan. We noted that in the past three months Costco's shares have increased 14.2%, while the Zacks categorized Retail-Discount Variety industry has gained 1.6%. This primarily can be attributed to positive comparable-store sales (comps) performance in the past five months. Comps rose 7% in January, following an increase of 3% in December, 1% in November, 2% in October and 1% in September. Net sales were up 9% in January, following an increase of 5%, 3%, 4% and 3% in December, November, October and September, respectively. What concerns investors a bit the company's soft start to fiscal 2017. Costco delivered a negative earnings surprise of 1.7% in the first quarter, and total revenue also fell short of the Zacks Consensus Estimate for the eighth straight quarter. Further, stiff competition from BJ's Wholesale Club and Sam's Club, a division of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. WMT , has been a threat. Nevertheless, we believe Costco's strategic initiatives will help propel the stock further, unless an unprecedented event derails the same. Given the pros and cons embedded the stock currently carries a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). Stocks to Consider Better-ranked stocks in the industry include Ross Stores, Inc. ROST and Dollar Tree, Inc. DLTR both carrying a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy). You can see e the complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here . Ross Stores delivered an average positive earnings surprise of 5% in the trailing four quarters and has a long-term earnings growth rate of 10.5%. Dollar Tree delivered an average positive earnings surprise of 2.4% in the trailing four quarters and has a long-term earnings growth rate of 16.7%. Zacks' Top Investment Ideas for Long-Term Profit How would you like to see our best recommendations to help you find today's most promising long-term stocks? Starting now, you can look inside our portfolios featuring stocks under $10, income stocks, value investments and more. These picks, which have double and triple-digit profit potential, are rarely available to the public. But you can see them now. Click here Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report makeArticleAd(); Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (WMT): Free Stock Analysis Report Dollar Tree, Inc. (DLTR): Free Stock Analysis Report Costco Wholesale Corporation (COST): Free Stock Analysis Report Ross Stores, Inc. (ROST): Free Stock Analysis Report To read this article on Zacks.com click here. Zacks Investment Research The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc. Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages. You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
					unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
					cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings? Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.