(BI Intelligence) This story was delivered to BI Intelligence " E-Commerce Briefing " subscribers. To learn more and subscribe, please click here . Walmart announced several initiatives this week aimed at boosting its omnichannel presence. Included in the company’s plans are efforts to smooth out its in-store checkout process, as well as simplify the process for suppliers looking to sell both online and in-store. Such moves are key for Walmart as it looks to combat competition from Amazon and protect its share of the retail industry. Focusing on omnichannel could help Walmart remain a top competitor in the retail industry. Walmart has been pushing to grow its online presence — its third-party site, Walmart Marketplace, added 8 million inventory items in Q3 2016, bringing the company’s total online offerings to 19 million. And Walmart posted a 21% year-over-year (YoY) bump in e-commerce sales in Q3, though overall sales were relatively flat. However, the retailer is still largely dwarfed by Amazon, which counts about 365 million products on offer from its nearly 2 million merchants, and logged a 22% YoY increase in revenue in its most recent quarter. By launching additional initiatives aimed at blending its physical and digital channels, Walmart may be able to better leverage its massive brick-and-mortar footprint to compete with the e-commerce giant. E-commerce has been on the rise in the last several years, thanks in large part to titans in the industry such as Amazon and Alibaba. E-commerce will truly become the future of retail, as nearly all of the growth in the retail sector now takes place in the digital space. BI Intelligence , Business Insider's premium research service, forecasts that U.S. consumers will spend $385 billion online in 2016. Moreover, BI Intelligence predicts that number will grow to $632 billion in 2020. This is hardly surprising considering e-commerce's healthy growth. Though the U.S. retail average growth rate in the first half of 2016 was just 2% for total retail, it was 16% for e-commerce. The number of online shoppers has grown by nearly 20 million from 2015 to 2016. And these 224 million shoppers are spending more, as the total amount spent online grew from $61 billion in the first quarter of 2015 to $68 billion in Q1 2016. Finally, these customers are transacting more frequently, as the number of online transactions has risen by 115 million from 2015 to 2016. But all of this shopping online creates its own set of challenges, both for consumers and the companies that are trying to get their products onto shoppers' screens and into their shopping carts. In short, you need a plan. And to create your ultimate e-commerce battle plan, you need the right intel. BI Intelligence is here to help. Our team of industry experts has you covered on topics such as: Interested in getting the full bundle of nearly 80 reports? Here are two ways to access it: More From Business Insider Dont-Tase-Me-Bro: Why is Trump more angry with the leaks than the content of the leaks?? 2.7k